The 2024 GOP Platform to Make America Great Again is a forward-looking agenda that will deliver safety, prosperity and freedom for the American people. My administration will deliver on these bold promises," states President Donald J. Trump. "We will restore strength, competence and common sense to the Oval Office. I have absolute confidence the Trump-Vance Administration will be ready to govern effectively on Day One. Thank you very much. Wow. Well, I want to thank you all very much. This is great. These are our friends. We have thousands of friends in this incredible movement. This is a movement like nobody's ever seen before. And, frankly, this was, I believe, the greatest political movement of all time. There's never been anything like this in this country, and maybe beyond. And now, it's going to reach a new level of importance, because we're going to help our country heal. We're going to help our country heal. We have a country that needs help and it needs help very badly. We're going to fix our borders, we're going to fix everything about our country; and we made history for a reason tonight, and the reason is going to be just that. We overcame obstacles that nobody thought possible, and it's now clear that we've achieved the most incredible political— Look what happened; is this crazy? But it's a political victory that our country has never seen before — nothing like this. I want to thank the American people for the extraordinary honour of being elected your 47th president and your 45th president. And every citizen, I will fight for you, for your family and your future. Every single day, I will be fighting for you and with every breath in my body. I will not rest until we have delivered the strong, safe and prosperous America that our children deserve, and that you deserve. This will truly be the golden age of America. That's what we have to have. This is a magnificent victory for the American people that will allow us to make America great again. And in addition to having won the battleground states of North Carolina — I love these places — Georgia, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, We are now winning in Michigan, Arizona, Nevada and Alaska, which would result in us carrying at-least 315 electoral votes, but that— but it's much easier doing what the networks did, or whoever called it, because there was no other path. There was no other path to victory. We also have won the popular vote; that was great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Winning the popular vote was very nice; very nice, I will tell you. It's a great— a great feeling of love. We have a great feeling of love in this very large room with unbelievable people standing by my side. These people have been incredible. They've made the journey with me, and we're going to make you very happy. We're going to make you very proud of your vote. I hope that you're going to be looking back, someday, and say that was one of the truly important moments of my life, when I voted for this group of people. Beyond the president, this group of great people. America has given us an unprecedented and powerful mandate. We have taken back control of the Senate; wow, that's great. And the Senate races in Montana, Nevada, Texas, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania were all won by the MAGA movement. They helped so much. And in those cases, every one of them — we worked with the senators — they were tough races, and I mean, the number of victories in the Senate was absolutely incredible. And we did tele-rallies, we did tele-rallies with each one of them. And sometimes we did two or three for— And it was amazing to look at all of those victories. Nobody expected that; nobody. So, I just wanted to thank you very much for that. And we have— you have some great senators, and some great new senators. And it also looks like we'll be keeping control of the House of Representatives. And I want to thank Mike Johnson; I think he's doing a terrific job — terrific job. I want to also thank my beautiful wife, Melania, first lady, who has the number-one bestselling book in the country; can you believe that? Oh, no; she has done a great job — works very hard. Works very hard to help people. So I just want to thank her, but I want to thank my whole family: My amazing children — and they are amazing children. Now, we all think our children are amazing — everybody here thinks their children are amazing. But that's a good thing when you think they are. But Don, Eric, Ivanka, Tiffany, Barron, Lara, Jared, Kimberly, Michael; thank you all. What a help. My father in law, Viktor, is tremendous and we miss very much Melania's mother, Amalija. We miss Amalija, don't we; huh? She would be very happy right now, standing on this stage; she'd be so proud. She was a great woman, that one. Beautiful, inside and out. She was a great woman. I want to be the first to congratulate our great, now I can say, vice-president-elect of the United States, JD Vance. And his absolutely remarkable and beautiful wife, Usha Vance. And he is a feisty guy, isn't he? You know, I've said: "Go into the enemy camp," and, you know, the enemy camp is certain networks, and a lot of people don't like those. "Sir, do I have to do that?" He just goes, "Okay, which one?" "CNN, and MS-DNC," he'll say, "All right, thank you very much—" He actually looks like— he's like the only guy I've ever seen who really looks forward to it, and then he just goes and absolutely obliterates them. Say a couple of words. I am pleased to announce that the Former ICE Director, and stalwart on Border Control, Tom Homan, will be joining the Trump Administration, in charge of our Nation's Borders ("The Border Czar"), including, but not limited to, the Southern Border, the Northern Border, all Maritime, and Aviation Security. I've known Tom for a long time, and there is nobody better at policing and controlling our Borders. Likewise, Tom Homan will be in charge of all Deportation of Illegal Aliens back to their Country of Origin. Congratulations to Tom. I have no doubt he will do a fantastic, and long awaited for, job. Susie Wiles just helped me achieve one of the greatest political victories in American history, and was an integral part of both my 2016 and 2020 successful campaigns Susie is tough, smart, innovative, and is universally admired and respected. Susie will continue to work tirelessly to Make America Great Again. It is a well deserved honor to have Susie as the first-ever female Chief of Staff in United States history. I have no doubt that she will make our country proud. I am honored to nominate Chairwoman Elise Stefanik to serve in my Cabinet as United States Ambassador to the United Nations. Elise is a strong and very smart America First fighter. She graduated from Harvard University, with honors, was the youngest woman ever elected to Congress, and is the highest ranking woman in Congress, as the House Republican Conference Chair. She was the first Member of Congress to endorse me, and has always been a staunch advocate. Elise is a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, the House Intelligence Committee, and led the charge against antisemitism on college campuses. She will be an incredible Ambassador to the United Nations, delivering? Peace through Strength and America First National Security policies! As the 45th & 47th President of the United States, I am pleased to announce that the Highly Respected former Congressman from New York, Lee Zeldin, will be appointed to serve as The Administrator of The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Lee, with a very strong legal background, has been a true fighter for America First policies. He will ensure fair and swift deregulatory decisions that will be enacted in a way to unleash the power of American businesses, while at the same time maintaining the highest environmental standards, including the cleanest air and water on the planet. He will set new standards on environmental review and maintenance, that will allow the United States to grow in a healthy and well-structured way. I have known Lee Zeldin for a long time, and have watched him handle, brilliantly, some extremely difficult and complex situations. I am very proud to have him in the Trump Administration, where he will quickly prove to be a great contributor! I am pleased to announce that the Highly Respected former Governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee, has been nominated to be The United States Ambassador to Israel. Mike has been a great public servant, Governor, and Leader in Faith for many years. He loves Israel, and the people of Israel, and likewise, the people of Israel love him. Mike will work tirelessly to bring about Peace in the Middle East! I am pleased to announce that the Governor and former Congresswoman from South Dakota, Kristi Noem, will be appointed to serve as the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Kristi has been very strong on Border Security. She was the first Governor to send National Guard Soldiers to help Texas fight the Biden Border Crisis, and they were sent a total of eight times. She will work closely with "Border Czar" Tom Homan to secure the Border, and will guarantee that our American Homeland is secure from our adversaries. I have known Kristi for years, and have worked with her on a wide variety of projects - She will be a great part of our mission to Make America Safe Again. Governor Kristi Noem issued the following statement: "I am honored and humbled that President Donald J. Trump has selected me to be the Secretary of Homeland Security. I look forward to working with Border Czar Tom Homan to make America SAFE again. With Donald Trump, we will secure the Border, and restore safety to American communities so that families will again have the opportunity to pursue The American Dream." I am pleased to announce that the Great Elon Musk, working in conjunction with American Patriot Vivek Ramaswamy, will lead the Department of Government Efficiency ("DOGE"). Together, these two wonderful Americans will pave the way for my Administration to dismantle Government Bureaucracy, slash excess regulations, cut wasteful expenditures, and restructure Federal Agencies - Essential to the "Save America" Movement. "This will send shockwaves through the system, and anyone involved in Government waste, which is a lot of people!" stated Mr. Musk. It will become, potentially, "The Manhattan Project" of our time. Republican politicians have dreamed about the objectives of "DOGE" for a very long time. To drive this kind of drastic change, the Department of Government Efficiency will provide advice and guidance from outside of Government, and will partner with the White House and Office of Management & Budget to drive large scale structural reform, and create an entrepreneurial approach to Government never seen before. I look forward to Elon and Vivek making changes to the Federal Bureaucracy with an eye on efficiency and, at the same time, making life better for all Americans. Importantly, we will drive out the massive waste and fraud which exists throughout our annual $6.5 Trillion Dollars of Government Spending. They will work together to liberate our Economy, and make the U.S. Government accountable to "WE THE PEOPLE." Their work will conclude no later than July 4, 2026 - A smaller Government, with more efficiency and less bureaucracy, will be the perfect gift to America on the 250th Anniversary of The Declaration of Independence. I am confident they will succeed! I am honored to announce that I have nominated Pete Hegseth to serve in my Cabinet as The Secretary of Defense. Pete has spent his entire life as a Warrior for the Troops, and for the Country. Pete is tough, smart and a true believer in America First. With Pete at the helm, America's enemies are on notice - Our Military will be Great Again, and America will Never Back Down. Pete is a graduate of Princeton University, and has a Graduate Degree from Harvard University. He is an Army Combat Veteran who did tours in Guantanamo Bay, Iraq, and Afghanistan. For his actions on the battlefield, he was decorated with two Bronze Stars, as well as a Combat Infantryman's Badge. Pete has been a host at FOX News for eight years, where he used that platform to fight for our Military and Veterans. Pete's recent book, "The War on Warriors," spent nine weeks on the New York Times best-sellers list, including two weeks at NUMBER ONE. The book reveals the leftwing betrayal of our Warriors, and how we must return our Military to meritocracy, lethality, accountability, and excellence. Pete has also led two Veterans Advocacy organizations, leading the fight for our Warriors, and our great Veterans. Nobody fights harder for the Troops, and Pete will be a courageous and patriotic champion of our "Peace through Strength" policy. I am pleased to announce that former Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe will serve as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). From exposing fake Russian collusion to be a Clinton campaign operation, to catching the FBI's abuse of Civil Liberties at the FISA Court, John Ratcliffe has always been a warrior for Truth and Honesty with the American Public. When 51 intelligence officials were lying about Hunter Biden's laptop, there was one, John Ratcliffe, telling the truth to the American People. For these and many other reasons, it was my great honor in 2020 to award John the National Security Medal, the Nation's highest honor for distinguished achievement in the field of Intelligence and National Security. I look forward to John being the first person ever to serve in both of our Nation's highest Intelligence positions. He will be a fearless fighter for the Constitutional Rights of all Americans, while ensuring the Highest Levels of National Security, and PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH. I am pleased to announce that William Joseph McGinley will serve as my White House Counsel. Bill is a smart and tenacious lawyer who will help me advance our America First agenda while fighting for election integrity and against the weaponization of law enforcement. He served in my first term as White House Cabinet Secretary and played a major role in our election victory as the RNC's Outside Counsel for Election Integrity. Bill has served as General Counsel at the National Republican Senatorial Committee, has been a partner at two international law firms, and will work with me as we Make America Great Again! I am pleased to announce that I have appointed Steven C. Witkoff to be Special Envoy to the Middle East. Steve is a Highly Respected Leader in Business and Philanthropy, who has made every project and community he has been involved with stronger and more prosperous. Steve will be an unrelenting Voice for PEACE, and make us all proud. Thank you. We begin our campaign and I just wanna thank all of you, you are warriors. I've been watching. I've been watching the fake news for weeks now, and everything is negative. Don't go, don't come, don't do anything. Today it was like, I've never seen anything like it. I've never seen anything like it. You are warriors, thank you. We had some very bad people outside. We had some very bad people outside, they were doing bad things. But I really do, I appreciate it. We have just a tremendous group of people in Oklahoma. And I hear——I hear from your two great senators and your governor that we're doing very well in Oklahoma, that's the word. That's the word. I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before. Five months from now, we're going to defeat Sleepy Joe Biden. Boy, does he get a pass from these people, huh? We're going to stop the radical left. We're going to build a future of safety and opportunity for Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. Republicans are the party of liberty, equality, and justice for all. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln and we are the party of law and order. Think of what we've done. We will have close to 300 federal judges appointed and approved by the end of my first time, that's an all-time record. That's an all-time record. I've always heard how important judges are. Now we know how important they are. Think of that. Over 300, around 300, by the end of the term. And when we have another four years, we're gonna have a big, big percentage of the total number. Very important, November 3rd. And two great Supreme Court judges. So we have two justices of the Supreme Court, Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they're great. They're great. They are, they're great. We have two. And we could get a few more, yeah, we can get a few more. We've spent over two trillion dollars to completely rebuild the unmatched strength and power of the United States military. And all of that incredible equipment, whether it's submarines or missiles or rockets or jet fighters, bombers, it's all built in the USA. We passed VA Choice. Thank you very much, Jim. Where's my senator? Jim Inhofe, you better vote for him, he's running, he's great. But we'll get to him and James Lankford in a second, two great senators. You have two great senators. So we passed VA Choice. So if you're a veteran, for years and years, they've wanted to do it for almost 50 years, we got it done. We get a lot of things done. And so if you're a veteran and you have to wait in line for one week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks, two months. What happens is you go outside, you get a private doctor, you get fixed up and they pay your bill. We take care of the bill. We take care of the bill and you get immediate service. It's never happened before. And our approval rating at the VA is now 91%, that's how good it is. Never been anywhere near that number. Never been anywhere near that number. And VA accountability, we had a lot of bad people in the VA. People that didn't love our vets, people that were sadistic, people that stole, a lot of bad people. You couldn't get rid of them because they were— Let's say it could be unions, it could be civil service, right, let's say, let's just say. And so you couldn't get it done. That was another one for decades and decades, they wanted to get it changed. And I got it done with those people and your congressman, your congressman who I'm going to introduce. VA accountability, and now somebody treats our veterans badly and we look at them and what do we say? We say, "You're fired, get out," right? "Get out." They got rid of a lot of bad people that were there for a long time. Sort of like me in Washington, draining the swamp. I never knew it was so deep. But it's happening. It's happening, I never knew it was so deep. It's deep and thick and a lot of bad characters. Thank you. We're lowering the price of prescription drugs, making our allies pay their fair share, they get a big bargain on drug prices, and enacting fair trade deals. That finally, finally, after all these years put America first. I've been saying it for a long time. We passed the largest tax cuts in the history of our country. The Democrats wanna raise your taxes. Tell me about that. Tell me about that. I guess I'm old-fashioned. All my life, all my life, I heard politicians wanna lower taxes, not raise them. If you could lower them, you couldn't lose. The Democrats wanna substantially raise your taxes. How do you figure that? How do you figure that? And regulation cuts, we passed more regulation cuts than any administration in the history of our country. And with the help of our great energy workers, many of them come from the great state of Oklahoma. Do you ever notice that Biden, no, do you ever notice that Biden oftentimes gets the state wrong? He's in Iowa and he says, "It's good to be in Idaho." "No, no, you're in Iowa." He's in New Hampshire and he says it's great to be in Ohio. "No, no, no, you're in New Hampshire." That happens to him all the time, hasn't happened to me yet. When that happens, there's nothing you can do to make up for it. You might as well just walk off the stage because the speech is a disaster. Right? Right? But we just turned the United States into the dominant energy super power of the world, of the world. And because of the Chinese virus, what happened about three months ago, it looked like we were in big trouble and we were, and I got it back together. I called Russia. I called— Right? I called Russia. I called Saudi Arabia and believe it or not, I called Mexico. Mexico was a little bit tough. That's called OPEC Plus, did you ever hear of OPEC Plus? That's OPEC Plus plus. And we got them to do the right thing and we have our energy back to almost 40 dollars a barrel, meaning you have an energy business again. Almost 40 dollars a barrel. Couple of months ago, it was zero and we were gonna lose 10 million energy jobs, 10 million jobs. So Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota, and many other states would have been hurt. Now you think you're going to be hurt there. You try putting AOC in charge of your energy. That will make the pandemic look like child's play to the people in energy. She has one problem, it's called petroleum. No president or administration has done more in the first three and a half years than the Trump administration. Not even close. Nobody. Our incredible success in rebuilding America stands in stark contrast to the extremism and destruction and violence of the radical left. We just saw it outside. We just saw it outside, you saw these thugs that came along. These people, call them protesters, isn't it beautiful, it's so beautiful. No, they're so wonderful. They call them the Boston Tea Party. They're so wonderful. Yeah, they call them— You ever watch fake news CNN, you ever watch where they go? How about the CNN anchor, how about the CNN anchor, you know, did a little shave job in the head, which is fine. And he's standing in front of a building saying, "Things are very peaceful here." And the building is, it looks like the biggest fire I've ever seen. The whole town is burning. It's like the biggest fire. And he said, "Things are very good here, Anderson. I think it's great. I think it's great. These are wonderful people, Anderson." Did you ever see that? It looked like the world was coming to an end. And, you know, we did something in Minneanapolis after watching for three or four days, I called, I said, "You gotta get— You can't protect yourselves." I got them to take 8,000 National Guardsmen. And in one hour it all ended and they rode through the next three weeks with no problem. And we did the same thing in other cities. But how about Seattle? Isn't that great? So they take over a big chunk of a city called Seattle. I mean, we're not talking about some little place, we're talking about Seattle. Have you ever been to Seattle? They took over a big chunk and the governor, who's radical left, all of these places I talk about are Democrat, you know that, every one of them, every one of them. And I'd have an offer out, I said, "Anytime you want we'll come in, we'll straighten it out in one hour or less." Now I may be wrong, but it's probably better for us to just watch that disaster. I flew in with some of our great congressmen, who we're going to introduce it a second. And I said to them, "Congressmen, what do you think? I can straighten it out fast, should we just go in?" "No, sir. Let it simmer for a little while. Let people see what radical left Democrats will do to our country." But Americans have watched left-wing radicals burn down buildings, loot businesses, destroy private property, injure hundreds of dedicated police officers. These police officers, they get injured, they don't complain. They're incredible. And injure thousands upon thousands of people only to hear the radical fake news say what a beautiful rally it was. And they never talk about COVID. They don't talk about, when you see 25,000 people walking down Fifth Avenue or walking down a street of a Democrat-run city, you never hear them saying, "They're not wearing their mask." You don't hear them say, as they're breaking windows and running in. And then when I say, "The looters, the anarchists, the agitators," they say, "What a terrible thing for our president to say, what a terrible thing." But you don't hear them talking about COVID, COVID, to be specific, COVID-19. That name gets further and further away from China, as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus. And despite the fact that we, I have done a phenomenal job with it, I shut down the United States to very heavily infected, but all people from China in late January, which is months earlier than other people would have done it, if they would have done it at all. I saved hundreds of thousands of lives. We don't ever get even a mention. Then I closed it down to Europe early, closed it down because I saw what was happening. And by the way, most people said, "Don't do it, don't do it." We saved hundreds of thousands of lives and all we do is get hit on like we're terrible. And what we've done with the ventilators and with the medical equipment and with testing, you know, testing is a double edged sword. We've tested now 25 million people. It's——probably 20 million people more than anybody else. Germany's done a lot. South Korea has done a lot. They called me, they said, "The job you're doing ..." Here's the bad part. When you do testing to that extent, you're gonna find more people, you're going to find more cases. So I said to my people, "Slow the testing down, please." They test and they test. We had tests and people don't know what's going on. We got tests, "We got another one over here." The young man's 10 years old. He's got the sniffles. He'll recover in about 15 minutes. "That's a case, add him to it. That's okay. That's a case." I was actually with a very nice man, very good man, even though he's very liberal, the governor of New Jersey, right? We know him? No, listen, he said to me something that's amazing. New Jersey was very heavily hit, very hard hit, thousands of people. He said with thousands of people that died, thousands of people, there was only one person that died under the age of 18. Would you believe that? Which tells me one thing, that kids are much stronger than us. When you see a little kid running around say, "Boy, oh, boy, do you have a great immune system. How about a piece of your immune system?" They don't even know about this. Let's open the schools, please. Open the schools. Open the schools. We gotta get them open. In the fall, we gotta get them open. The unhinged left-wing mob is trying to vandalize our history, desecrate our monuments, our beautiful monuments. Tear down our statues and punish, cancel, and persecute anyone who does not conform to their demands for absolute and total control. We're not conforming, that's why we're here, actually. This cruel campaign of censorship and exclusion violates everything we hold dear as Americans. They want to demolish our heritage so they can impose their new oppressive regime in its place. They wanna defund and dissolve our police departments, think of that. You know, I heard it for the first time two weeks ago, I said, "Well, that one, I mean, they're only kidding." I said, "They're only ..." They're not! Minneapolis, you see what's going on. They're not kidding. They got a lot of problems. They'll have a lot of problems. Hey, it's 1:00 o'clock in the morning and a very tough, you know, I've used the word on occasion, hombre, a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away as a traveling salesman or whatever he may do. And you call 911 and they say, "I'm sorry, this number's no longer working." By the way, you have many cases like that, many, many, many. Whether it's a young woman, an old woman, a young man, or an old man and you're sleeping. So what are you gonna do, right? So they wanna defund. They really do, this as a serious movement. And in Minneapolis, the council's already passed it. In Seattle, you see what's going on there, it's even worse, okay? These people are stone-cold crazy. They're crazy. So if you wanna save your heritage, you wanna save that beautiful heritage of ours, we have a great heritage. We're a great country. You are so lucky I'm president, that's all I can tell you. People have come up to me, say, "How do you take it?" I say, "Do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?" We deal with a lot of bad people, but we're winning. And every once in a while, I'll have one of these days where I'm hit left and right, left and right, like even this great event. What— If you could have seen outside or if you could have heard the reports, the reports, "Oh, it's COVID. It's this again." By the way, it's a disease without question, has more names than any disease in history. I can name, "Kung flu." I can name——19 different versions of names. Many call it a virus, which it is. Many call it a flu, what difference? I think we have 19 or 20 versions of the name. But they say to me, "Where do you get the energy?" I say, "I don't have a choice. I don't have a choice." You know, it was interesting, to show you how fake they are, you might've seen it. So last week they called me and they say, "Sir, West Point, West Point, we're ready." I said, "Oh, that's right. I have to make the commencement speech at West Point." You know, they delayed it for six weeks because of COVID. So they delayed it and I went there. One thousand, one hundred and six cadets were graduated and beautiful. Beautiful cadets. So, just to show you how bad the fake news is, so they say to me, "Sir, we're ready to go." I say, "Let's go." This is after saying hello to a lot of cadets, inspecting little areas of a building, that was very exciting. Actually, it's beautiful, very old. Studied a lot of our great generals, some of our presidents that went there. West Point is beautiful, right on the Hudson River. But after an hour, the general that runs it is a fantastic guy. After an hour, we land, we do some more inspections and they say, "Sir, are you ready?" "Yes, I am." So we walked like the equivalent of about three blocks, which is fine. We go onstage, which is fine. They make speeches, then I make a speech that lasted a long time. I don't know, maybe 45 minutes, maybe longer, I don't know, but a long time. The sun is pouring down on me, okay. But they said to me before the speech, "Sir, would you like to salute each cadet, each single cadet? Or maybe they'll be in groups of two. Would you like to salute? Like this?" "Yes." Like this, almost 600 times. You know what that is? Six hundred times. Thank God they were in twos——because let me tell you, you do that 600 times, you go home and you say it's like a workout without a weight, right? Six hundred times. So I did that. Then the incredible helicopters, brand new gorgeous helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought. So they fly over and the kids throw the hats in the air, it's beautiful, it really is. It was a beautiful day and we're all finished. I was on the stage for hours, hours, sun, I came home, I had a nice tan——meaning, meaning I had a nice sunburn. The sun's going right like that, but I make this speech. Right? I salute for probably an hour and a half, maybe more, but around that. Watch. If I'm off by two minutes they'll say, "He exaggerated. It was only an hour and 25 minutes. He exaggerated, he lied, he lied, he's a liar." These people are sick, the fake news. So then, so then, I finish saluting my final salute, I said, "Thank goodness. Thank you very much." But think of it. So essentially almost 600 times. Now the general says, "Sir, are you ready?" I said, "I'm ready General, where are we going now?" You have to understand I left early in the morning to get there. Now it's sort of late in the afternoon. A lot of these fakers were with us. So they know. He said, "Sir, we can now leave the stage." I said, "Great, General, let's go, I'll follow you," and he goes like this, "Right here, sir," and I walked off. The stage was higher than this one and the ramp was probably 10 yards long. I say, "General." Now you gotta understand, I have the whole corps of cadets looking at me and I want them to love their president, I did this big thing. I love them, I love them. They're incredible, and they do. I said, "General, I've got myself a problem, General." Because I'm wearing leather-bottom shoes which is good if you're walking on flat surfaces. It's not good for ramps and if I fall down, look at all those press back there, look at them. And this was a steel ramp, you all saw it because everybody saw it. This was a steel ramp. It had no handrail, it was like an ice-skating rink, and I said, "General, I have a problem," and he didn't understand that at first. I said, "There's no way." He understood, I just saluted almost 600 times. I just made a big speech. I sat for other speeches. I'm being baked. I'm being baked like a cake. I said, "General, there's no way I can make it down that ramp without falling on my ass, General. I have no railing." True. It's true. So I said, "Is there like something else around?" "Sir, the ramp is ready to go." "Grab me sir, grab me." I didn't really wanna grab him. You know why? Because I said, "That'll be a story too." So now I have a choice. I can stay up there for another couple of hours and wait till I'm rescued——or I can go down this really steep, really, really, really— It's an ice-skating rink, it's brutal. So I said, "General, get ready because I may grab you so fast." Because I can't fall with the fake news watching. If I fall——if I fall— I remember when President Ford fell out of the plane, do you remember? I remember when another president, nice man, threw up in Japan——and they did slow motion replays. It's true, right? "I don't want that, General." Now he's standing there, big strong guy, and he's got these shoes but they're loaded with rubber on the bottom because I looked, the first thing I did, I looked at his shoes. Then I looked at mine. Very, very slippery. So I end up saying, "Okay, General, let's go. I will only grab you if I need you." That's not a good story. Falling would be a disaster. It turned out to be worse than anything, I would have been better off if I fell and slid down the damn ramp. Right? So——so what happens is I start the journey, inch by inch, right? And I was really bent over too. I didn't like that. You know, I didn't like this picture. This picture I'm sure will be an ad by the fakers. So I was bent over, right? Bent over like this. And then we finally reached almost the end and the fake news, the most dishonest human beings, they cut it off. You know why? Because when I was 10 feet short, I said, "General, I'm sorry," and I ran down the rest, right? I looked very handsome. That was the only good— I wouldn't wanna run down the whole thing because the fall there would be definitely bad. So I took these little steps, I ran down the last 10, and by the way their tape, take a look. In almost every instance, it ends just before I run, and they said, "Here was the number one trending story." I call my wife, I said, "How good was that speech? I thought it was a ..." Hey look, I will tell you when I make good ones and bad ones. Like so far tonight, I'm average, but we're having fun, we're having fun. So far tonight. But I call my wife and I said, "How good was it, darling?" She said, "You're trending number one." I said to our great first lady, I said, "Let me ask you a question. Was it that good, the speech, that I'm trending number one? Because I felt it was really good." "No no, they don't even mention the speech. They mention the fact that you may have Parkinson's disease." It's true. It's true. It's true. They say, "There's something wrong with our president." I'll let you know if there's something wrong, okay? I'll let you know if there's something, I'll tell you what, there's something wrong with Biden, that I could tell you. So-- So, so then my wife said, "Well, it wasn't only the ramp. Did you have water?" I said, "Yeah. I was speakin' for a long time. I didn't wanna drink it, but I wanted to wet my lips a little bit, you know?" You're drinking for--you're working hard up there with the sun pouring down on you. I love this location, the sun's like this. This way they save on lighting, right? That's why they did it probably. So what happens is I said, "What does it have to do with water?" They said, "You couldn't lift your hand up to your mouth with water." I said, "I just saluted 600 times like this, and this was before I saluted, so what's the problem?" She said, "Well I know what you did. You had on a very good red tie that's a sort of expensive." It's silk, because they look better. They have a better sheen to 'em. And I don't wanna get water on the tie, and I don't wanna drink much, so I lift it up, the water. I see we have a little glass of water. Where the hell did this water come from? Right? Where did it come from? And I look down at my tie 'cause I've done it. I've taken water, and it spills down onto your tie, doesn't look good for a long time, and frankly, the tie is never the same. So I put it up to my lip and then I say, --because I don't wannit--just in case. And they gave me another disease. They gave me another disease. Anyway, that's a long story, but here's the story. I have lived with, more the ramp than the water, but I have lived with the ramp and the water since I left West Point. Not one media group said I made a good speech, or I made a great speech. But the kids loved it because they broke their barrier which wasn't good in terms of COVID, but they broke their barrier and they wanted to shake hands, they wanted to— I don't want to tell anybody, but there were a couple of kids, they put out their hand, I actually shook their hand, okay? I actually shook them. Because they were excited. They were excited. They're with their president. They were excited. The most beautiful young people. Men, women, the most beautiful young people you've ever seen. So think of how you feel if you're me. I go there, how did I do? "Sir, that was a great speech." You know all my people, "Sir, that was one of your best, that was great." I said, "That's great, I agree, it was a good speech. I like that speech." They don't mention the speech but they have me going down this ramp at an inch a time. It's so unfair. It really is. So unfair. They are among the most dishonest people anywhere on Earth. They're bad people. Bad people. Okay, that's enough of that. I wanted to tell that story. Does everybody understand that story? The left-wing anarchists tore down a statue of Thomas Jefferson. Now we're getting into the real stuff. They decapitated a statue of Christopher Columbus, except in New York when the Italians surrounded it. They didn't have too much of a chance. Those Italians, I love the Italians. They heard they were gonna rip down their beautiful Christopher Columbus and all of a sudden they circle that thing. They didn't do too well in hurting Christopher, did they? Thank you to our Italian population, we're very proud of you, right? Two days ago, leftist radicals in Portland, Oregon ripped down a statue of George Washington——and wrapped it in an American flag and set the American flag on fire. Democrat, all Democrat. Everything I tell you is Democrat——and you know we ought to do something, Mr. Senators, we have two great senators, we ought to come up with legislation that if you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. One year. Jim and James. Jim and James. We ought to do it. You know they talk about freedom of speech and I'm a big believer in freedom of speech, but that's desecration, that's a terrible thing they do. We used to have things, we don't have them anymore because we wanna be so open, so everything, and look what happens? We should have legislation that if somebody wants to burn the American flag and stomp on it or just burn it, they go to jail for one year, okay? In Seattle the Democrat mayor and the Democrat city council have surrendered control of six city blocks to an anarchist—Now these are anarchists, these are not protesters. You listen to the fake news, they say, "Oh, the protesters were lovely." Could you imagine if people just even slightly to the right tried to take over Seattle? They'd have machine guns out to get them, but these people can take over the city, look at what they've done to businesspeople that have spent years and years building their business, and now they're wiped out. Take it away. Governor Inslee ought to get his act together, get in there, I'll help you, I'll do whatever you want. I'm waiting for a call, I would love to do it. I would love to do it, it'll take, it'll take less than an hour and it'll all be over with and you'll have your city back. And yet Biden remains silent in his basement in the face of this brutal assault on our nation and the values of our nation. Joe Biden has surrendered to his party and to the left-wing mob. He has no control. Does anybody honestly think he controls these radial maniacs? You know what he says to his wife when he's not confusing her with his sister? "Get me the hell out of here. These people are crazy." That's what he says. He has absolutely no control. You know, a lot of times I'll make, like, a speech and I'll have this beautiful paragraph come out criticizing every little aspect of the speech, beautiful, brilliant, but Joe didn't—It'll say, "A comment from Joe Biden," but he didn't say it. Professional people, great students in English lit, people that are very smart say it. "Joe Biden said," and they'll go into this highly complex paragraph, beautifully worded and I say, "Joe didn't say that. Joe doesn't even understand it." And if Biden is elected, he will surrender your country to these mobsters 100%. Your 401(k)s, by the way, look at how we're doing in the stock market. Just set another record with NASDAQ. NASDAQ. Your 401(k)s and money itself will be worthless. Your 401(k)s are doing very well unless, I don't wanna say— If you were stupid I'd say, "Don't sell. Don't sell. It went down." But we got it back up, and now NASDAQ, think of it, NASDAQ just set a record and I think you're gonna see a lot of records, and next year, if we don't do anything stupid on November 3rd, you are gonna have the greatest economic year we've ever had. That'll be next year. If the Democrats gain power, then the rioters will be in charge and no one will be safe and no one will have control. Joe Biden is not the leader of his party. Joe Biden is a helpless puppet of the radical left——and he's not radical left. I don't think he knows what he is anymore, but he was never radical left, but he's controlled by the radical left, and now he's really controlled. His campaign staff even donated a lot of money to bail out rioters, looters, and arsonists who ravaged Minneapolis. They bailed them out, they put up a lot of money to bail them out, the rioters, the looters and they were, they were the arsonists. They'll say, "Oh, it's terrible what he says about the people of our nation." Maybe some of them aren't even from our nation. The leftists trying to do everything they can to stop us. Every hour of every day, including even violence and mayhem, they'll do anything they can to stop us. Look what happened tonight. Look at what happened tonight. Law enforcement said, "Sir, they can't have— They can't be outside. It's too dangerous." We had a bunch of maniacs come and sort of attack our city. The mayor and the governor did a great job, but they were very violent people. And our people are not nearly as violent, but if they ever were, it would be a terrible, terrible day for the other side. Because I know our people. I know our people. But we will never submit to their threats and we will never let them destroy our nation. What they did tonight, I saw it on television coming in on Air Force One. One thing about Air Force One, we got plenty of televisions. We have televisions in closets. You open up the closet, got a television. We got a lot of televisions. It's a great plane. Great everything. By the way, we ordered new ones. No president wanted to do it. They thought it was luxury, I said, "Wait a minute," Air Force One is 31 years old. People don't realize that. So I said, they gave me a charge, very early in my administration like how about the first week? "Sir, would you sign for this plane?" Now it's actually two planes. "Would you sign for this plane? Air Force One?" I said, "How old is the original or the one we have now?" "Sir, it's 31, 32 years." And I'd see people coming in from foreign lands that can't compete with us, rich countries but they can't compete with the— And they have a brand new beautiful 747-800, 747, and I say, "Wait a minute. That country has new and we have a 31-year, so somebody had to do it." So the deal was made and it was made for a lot of money. I think it was 5.7 or 5.6 billion dollars. Now in all fairness, it's two planes and there's a lot of stuff in those planes I won't talk to you about. So I told Boeing, the head of Boeing, they said, "Sir, please, we'd like to get started on the planes," I said, "I do too, but I'm not paying 5.6 billion——and I'm not paying 4.6 billion." I said, "It has to have a three on the front of it." And that's a hell of a lot of money too, but it is a rather complex situation. They said, "No way. No way." This was before Boeing had problems by the way, but Boeing's coming back. They're coming back. Greatest company of the world and they had some big problems. It had a couple of problems that didn't work out, that was terrible, but the greatest. I think before that, it was the greatest company in the world. It made up a quarter, one quarter of a point, of our GDP. Think how big that is, one company. It was an unbelievable machine and then they made a plane and they did some foolish things and a terrible thing happened and all of a sudden they've gone through hell but you know what? They're coming back, we're ready to help them if they need it but they're coming back and they're coming back strong. But this was the Boeing before that and they were riding high, like I was before this thing came in, but we're still riding high because you know what? On November 3rd we're gonna win. We're gonna win. So they came in and they came in and they said, "No no, no, we want, no, we— 5.6 billion," whatever it was." Whatever it was, if I'm a little bit off they'll go crazy. You know. Whatever, but it was a lot. 5.6 billion. Nope, gotta have a three. Gotta have a three, call me up. Nope, cancel the contract. I said, "Cancel the contract. I wanna cancel." I said, "General, can you cancel the contract?" He said, "Yes sir, I'm very proud of it." "Oh good. Cancel it." "Okay sir." "By the way, to cancel it, do you have to pay anything?" "Yes sir. We have a cancellation fee, sir." "How much is it, General?" "Two hundred and fifty million dollars, sir." I said, "What?" "Sir, we made a good deal. Two hundred and fifty million to kill." "You mean if we don't buy the plane we have to hand them 250 million. That's not good, right?" Look at these two guys, they're looking. By the way, that's like a good story compared to some I could tell you, like with aircraft carriers. So they said, "250 million?" Or I always say this, or around that number, because if I'm off by a little bit, they say, "Oh, he exaggerates." I, I look at numbers all day long. That's what I look at for years now, for my whole life when you think of it. Two hundred and fifty million cancellation fee, sir." He was very proud of himself. What a great— I say, "General. Don't cancel. Don't cancel. Just tell them I don't want the planes. Don't put anything in writing, don't put it in writing, General." "Why sir?" "Because I don't wanna pay 250." True. You hear that, Jim? Jim Inhofe, he's great. You hear that, Jim? You know that story. He does a great job. So here's what happened, the bottom line. Boeing says, "No way, no way, no way." The next week they say, "No way we're doing it." The next week they said, "How about five billion?" I said, "No way. No way." The next week they said, "4.8." I said, "Nope. It's gotta have a 3 at the front of it. Don't you understand, you dumb son of a bitch? Don't you understand?" I turned out to be right, you know. Turned out to be right. Nobody gets that. Nope. Gotta have a three. Next day, they come back, "4.5 is our best offer." "Nope. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. Come back when you're ready." A month goes by, another month, they never heard about it, they never heard from me, they thought I was serious, I was, and they came back at four billion dollars. That's a lot of money but I save like a billion six or a billion seven. Nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody wants to talk about it. When I get foreign nations to pay us billions and billions of dollars, nobody wants to talk about that. When I take soldiers out of countries because they're not treating us properly, Germany is an example. I mean I have a German heritage like some of you. I said, "Let's get it down from 50,000 to 25,000 because they're delinquent. For many years they're delinquent. They haven't been paying what they're supposed to be paying. They're paying 1% instead of 2% and 2% is a very low number," and they say, "Yes, we think by 2030, maybe 2032, we could get current." I said, "No, Angela, Angela, please. Don't say that, Angela." It's true. You know who I'm talking about. Nice, by the way, very nice woman. Very good negotiator. I said, "Angela, that's a long time," this was in 2019. She said 2032. I said, "No Angela, that's not working." But I said, what about, because now they wanna get current, but I said, "Well, what about the last 25 years? All the money you owe us?" Everybody forgot about that. They forget about all the money that wasn't paid. I said, "What about the trillion dollars that you really owe?" So we're negotiating, let's see, but in the meantime, we're reducing our troops. Remember this, we're supposed to protect Germany from Russia, but Germany is paying Russia billions of dollars for energy coming from a pipeline, brand-new pipeline. So they pay the country we're supposed to protect them from, they pay billions of dollars to that country. We're supposed to protect them. Excuse me, how does that work? How does that work? And the great thing is, with Jim Inhofe and with James, James Lankford, likewise, when— They just said they love you James. When they hear it, they get it. A lot of people don't get it. They get it. We cannot continue to be ripped off. We're ripped off by so many countries and we're stopping it. And that means that a lot of people don't want me here. They don't want me here. There are a lot of people that don't want me here. You know, they don't sell a lot of bombs when we're not dropping bombs on people. You know that, right? It's called the military industrial complex. When rioting and looting broke out in our nation's capital, I very quickly deployed the National Guard. I said, "Get them in," after watching for an evening or two. We stopped the violence and restored peace and order to the streets. And last night that had a little breakout. Again, they ripped down a statue that was 110 years old, beautiful piece of art in front of the police precinct with our radical left mayor watching on television. We're not happy. That's gonna be very expensive for DC. They're always looking for money. "We need more money. We always need more money." And then they don't do the proper job. So it's not gonna be good for Mayor Bowser, Mayor Bowser. They were heading over to the Jefferson Memorial recently and they wanted to do damage to our great, beautiful Jefferson Memorial. Not gonna happen. Don't worry about it. We have it surrounded with very strong people. The choice in 220 is very simple. Do you wanna bow before the left-wing mob, or do you wanna stand up tall and proud as Americans? True. And explain this to the NFL. I like the NFL. I like Roger Goodell, but I didn't like what he said a week ago. I said, "Where did that come from in the middle of the summer? Nobody's even asking." We will never kneel to our national anthem or our great American flag. We will stand proud and we will stand tall. I thought we won that battle with the NFL. The stadiums were emptying out. Did you see those stadiums? It took them a long time to get you back. A lot of people didn't like that. You know, a lot of people that you wouldn't even think would care that much. I've had people that I said, "These are super-left liberals and they didn't like it." Joe Biden and the Democrats wanna prosecute Americans for going to church, but not for burning a church. They believe you can riot, vandalize, and destroy, but you cannot attend a peaceful pro-America rally. They wanna punish your thought, but not their violent crimes. They wanna abolish bail, abolish and open up your borders. They want open borders, let everyone, and by the way, we're doing so well. We have a record this month on the borders. Nobody's coming in. Very few people. And they wanna abolish ICE, our great people from ICE who send the roughest, toughest, meanest people that you've ever seen or ever heard. Generally speaking, when they have lots of tattoos on their face, they're not looking to do you much help. ICE, they're rough guys, they're rough, they're great Americans, they love— But they'll walk into, they call them a pack. They'll walk into a pack of tough MS-13 gang members. And, you know, we shouldn't say this, it's not nice. They want us to negotiate. They start swinging. And the other starts, everybody's swinging, at the end, they carry them back and they throw them into the paddy wagon, right? They're great. And these people wanna get rid of ICE. They get rid of murderers. They get rid of rapists. They get rid of the worst scum on Earth. And when I called them animals, I said, "They're animals." And Nancy Pelosi— They cut up a young woman. They cut up a young woman and her friend, cut them up with a knife because it was more painful. Dead. Cut them up with a knife because it's more painful. It takes longer than shooting a gun. They cut them up. I said, "These are animals." And Nancy Pelosi said, "These are human beings. They're not animals." If I lose an election over that, you know what? This country is in big trouble. Big trouble. They wanna disarm law-abiding citizens and dismantle our police forces while freeing vicious MS-13 gang members. In Joe Biden's America, rioters, looters, and criminal aliens have more rights than law-abiding citizens. And that's true. In my administration, we defend American citizens and we deport MS-13 members——or put them in jail if we have to. The chaos you're seeing in our Democratic-run cities, these are all run by the Democrats, is what will happen in every city and community in America, and much, much worse if we don't keep them out. We have to do this. We have to go to the polls on November 3rd and the rest of you know what to do. You know what to do. Gotta keep the White House. Joe Biden's record can be summed up as four decades of betrayal, calamity, and failure. He never did anything. He was a senator. He was a vice president. He was before that something. You know what's great? "President Trump was tough on this or he was tough ..." They complained, never did anything about it. He's been there for 43 years or 47 years. He never did anything about it. Biden's supported every globalist attack on the American worker, "Let's make every country of the world rich but ourselves," including NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA. He wanted to go and TPP would have ruined our automobile industry. Korea, I renegotiated the deal. I took a horrible deal. That was a Hillary Clinton special. That was a Hillary Clinton special. She said, "We have to make this deal with South Korea. It's going to mean 250,000 jobs." And she was right, for South Korea, 250,000. And China's entry into the World Trade Organization was supported by Sleepy Joe Biden. That was one of the worst deals economically in the history of our country. When China joined the World Trade Organization, they became— They were flatline for decades. They became like a rocket ship. He voted for the war in Iraq. He voted for mass amnesty for illegal aliens. He supports sanctuary cities and now Biden wants to end immigration enforcement and require, he wants to require you to provide free healthcare for millions and millions of illegal aliens, okay? When I took early and decisive action to ban travel from China and protect Americans from the virus, and as I said, Joe Biden, opposed my decision and called it hysteria, xenophobia. He doesn't know what the word means, xenophobia and fear-mongering. And then he apologized a month later. He said he was wrong, but he didn't say it. And they didn't cover it. They didn't cover it. On one of the single most important policy decisions of our lifetime, Joe Biden sided with China over America, that's closing the border. He thought it was a terrible thing. Remember, this was in January. That's early, real early, the end of January. He thought it was a terrible thing when we close the border to many people that were badly infected with COVID. When the chips are down, Biden will always cave to the radical left. He'll always bow to the angry mob and he will never protect you or your family and you know that. Joe Biden will always let you down. That's been his history. At my direction early this year, the heroes of the U.S. military took out the world's top terrorist, the savage killer leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi and the number one terrorist anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani. We took them out. Joe Biden opposed killing Soleimani. He was vehemently— We killed this number one terrorist. He didn't like it. You know why he didn't like it? Because he thought it would be good politically, that didn't work out too well. Just as he opposed the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. He opposed it, you know that. Biden is always on the wrong side of history, as said by people that are with him and worked with him. He never made a correct foreign policy decision. Biden is a puppet for China. Son walked out with 1.5 billion. I think it's a little bit ... Allowing them to rip off America for many years. Now they're paying us billions and billions of dollars. We give a lot of it to our farmers. We have plenty left over. China's not exactly happy with me. Billions. They pay us billions and billions of dollars. And they targeted our great farmers. And I took the money that they targeted, I took that money and I gave it to the farmers. So they were even so they're okay. Are you okay? Come. Doctor, please. Doctor. Thank you. These people, I mean, some of the people are waiting for five days, especially in this location, right? You take your time, darling, take your time. Crowd Member. God bless you, Trump. The President. Thank you very much. Take your time. Doctor, thank you, doctor. No, some people wait for four or five days, it's incredible. He never did anything against China, Joe Biden. And that's why they desperately want him to win. They want him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. Let me tell you, I'm gonna make a very fast deal. The best deal you've ever seen. I've already made one with China, but I can make even more. They want me to lose because they will own the United States if I lose. Iran. President Obama gave them 150 billion dollars for nothing. And almost more incredible, he gave him 1.8 billion in green cash. Beautiful cash. And now they're not doing so well, are they? They're not doing so well. Someday, we're gonna get credit for this, someday, but they are waiting. Iran wants to make a deal so badly. But they're told by Carey and all these other, they shouldn't, the Logan Act, but they're told by Carey and all these people, "Wait, because if Trump loses you'll own America, you're gonna own it." They'll say you own it. So I don't mind. I told them, "We can wait, but when I win, you're gonna pay a much higher price than if you made a deal now." it's true. True. Totally true. I told them. And look what happened to Biden in Ukraine where his son's paid 83,000 a month and he was jobless. Give me a break. Eighty-three thousand a month. More than anybody. If Joe Biden were to become president an emboldened left will launch a full-scale assault on American life. You know that. They'll expel anyone who disagrees with them. Look what happens when you disagree. You use a term that's perfect and they're not happy with it. They call you a racist. They call you a horrible person. They wanna crush religious liberty, they don't want religion, silence religious believers, indoctrinate your children with hateful and vicious lies about our country, subsidize late-term abortion and after-birth execution. They wanna take away your guns through the repeal of your Second Amendment, as sure as you're sitting there. In fact, he even put the big gun grabber, Beto O'Rourke, who made a fool out of himself when he ran for president. They put him in charge of guns. Lots of luck on your Second Amendment. Just remember I said, and hopefully you won't have to think back about it too much, because it won't matter. Hopefully it won't matter. No, Beto O'Rourke who wants to give up guns is in charge of the Second Amendment. The Dems will also eliminate private health insurance, ban fracking, that's not good, and American energy will be in a position of weakness like it's never been before. And that's after we built the greatest energy country anywhere in the world by far. And they want to appoint Supreme Court justices who will utterly obliterate your Constitution. And you now see how important the Supreme Court is. Think if we didn't have two justices, that I think have been very, very, very good, but think how important it is. Think how important it is. And we still, I guess it's a, I don't know if it's an equal court, it's almost like we're a minority court, right? It's almost like we're a minority court. The recent Supreme Court cases prove that if Joe Biden is elected, he will stack the court with extremists, and the forgotten men and women, together with everyone else. We'll lose everything. The forgotten men and women, I campaigned on the forgotten. These are great people. These are substantial people. These are the elite. By the way, you're the elite. They're not the elite. You're the elite. Somebody two days ago said, "Sir, the elite are really working hard on trying to destroy you." I said, "Yeah, why do you call them the elite," I said, "why?" "Well, that's been ..." They're not elite. I look better than them. Much more handsome. Got better hair than they do. I got nicer properties. I got nicer houses. I got nicer apartments. I got nicer everything. I ran for politics once, just once in my life. And I became President of the United States. Once. Just once. And hopefully if you get out and vote, we'll do it one more time. We won't even toy with them about three or four more times. We won't. We'll do it one more time. We'll be two for two. And our country will never, ever be stronger. But I'll be soon announcing a new list of exceptional candidates for the United States Supreme Court. And I'll choose only from that list. A hundred percent, probably 25 incredible people, any one of which could be a great justice, any one of which. And I did it last time and people loved when I did it. And I'll only pick from that list. Biden can't release his list because the names would be too extreme, too radical. They wouldn't be acceptable, but they will be very radical people. People don't understand, but we actually won on DACA yesterday. We actually won because they basically said, "You won, but you have to come back and redo it." It's almost like, "Gee, come on back, your paperwork was no good." But we're gonna be refiling, but don't let it get you. Everything's gonna work out really good. Everything's gonna work out good. It was a great, it was great. I mean, would have been nice if we won. And everybody said, "Oh, you're gonna win DACA. You're gonna win DACA. That's easy. You're gonna win DACA. That's easy." They all said it. And they came back and they said, "We don't like what you did with your paperwork," essentially, right? So we're refiling it. Most people would say we lost. We didn't lose. We're going to refile it. And everything is going to work out for the young people. Most of whom aren't so young anymore, by the way. But we're gonna work it out for everybody. Biden is fully controlled by the fringe of his party. He is their pawn. He doesn't even know where the hell he is. Let's face it. He installed socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez——to be in charge of his environmental policy and his energy. Energy, you can forget petroleum. How does Oklahoma feel about being petroleum-free? Not good, right? Our country will have no energy. Our country will have nothing. Oklahoma, Texas, North Dakota, and many others will all be out of business. I don't think that's gonna work out too well, but she's actually in charge of environmental policy. And you know what that means. She doesn't even wanna win. She doesn't want those bird-killing machines that go round and round. You wanna see a lot of birds that are dead? Go under a windmill sometime. She wants us to go back to the Stone Ages because she's got no sense, no credentials. She's got a little charisma, not much, but she doesn't have a clue. You know it. But she's in charge of the environment. No airplanes. We can forget Boeing, I guess, come to think of it, right? We talked about Boeing. We could forget Boeing. Let's cancel those brand new Air Force Ones, right? Likewise, Representative Ilhan, Ilhan Omar——Ilhan Omar is going to be very much involved in a Biden government. They will put this hate-filled, America-bashing socialist front and center in deciding the fate of your family and deciding the fate of your country. I don't think so. She would like to make the government of our country just like the country from where she came, Somalia. No government, no safety, no police, no nothing. Just anarchy. And now she's telling us how to run our country. No thank you. And I think, I think we're gonna have a big victory in the state of Minnesota, because they've had it. They've had it. Biden is a very willing Trojan Horse for socialism. When Biden first ran for president over 33 years ago, remember I used to call him 1% Joe, he never got more than 1%——until Obama took him off the trash heap. But he blatantly copied the speech of a British politician, even ripping off the man's personal biography and family history and claiming it was his own. He forgot to say he was born in America. Joe Biden is a shameless hypocrite. Since 2003, he has delivered fawning eulogies to the funeral, and at those funerals, of three leading supporters of segregation, including a former member of the KKK, and yet Biden is now smearing as racist tens of millions of people like yourselves decent, hardworking Americans who he's never met, and he frankly probably doesn't want to meet. America should not take lectures on racial justice from Joe Biden. Sleepy Joe. A man who praised and partnered with segregationists, shipped millions of Black American jobs overseas, and everyone else's jobs too by the way. If I didn't come along, we're building auto plants, we're building everything. And there's never been a comeback like we're making right now. Never been. He hollowed out our middle class, including our Black middle class, with open borders. Trapped young children in failing government schools, built cages. Those cages were built by Obama and Biden. Look it up, 2014. And the fake news doesn't wanna— Remember the picture of the cage? A cage for children. Remember the picture of the cage? And they said, "President Trump." And then they realized that was at a newspaper, 2014, the same— Built by Obama and Biden, the cages. And they don't wanna report the way it is. They know the way it is. They're not stupid. They sent young boys to fight in Iraq while the inner cities crumble, helped the big banks while hammering community leaders, and made our cities less safe and secure for all. They've done a terrible job and they shouldn't be awarded. They should not get rewarded with an election victory on November 3rd, that shouldn't happen. It'll destroy this country. Our country will be destroyed. We've all worked too hard. They don't know what the hell they're doing. Some do actually, but in a very sinister way. Virtually every policy that has hurt Black Americans for half a century, Joe Biden has supported or enacted. I've done more for the Black community in four years than Joe Biden has done in 47 years. Racial justice begins with Joe Biden's retirement from public life. We are joined tonight by many outstanding Republican leaders. These are great people. We have two of our most distinguished, hardworking, wonderful friends, senators. They do a great job. Senator Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, please stand up. Two very respected, I will tell you, two very respected people in Washington. They're respected by everybody. They do some job, and I'd have you come up, but you can relax. I will say this. Jim is running on November 3rd, Jim Inhofe. He's running on November 3rd. I don't even know. Does he— Hey, James? Does he have any competition? Is somebody actually running against— There's no competition that he's got. I know he's got James's support. He's got my support. I give him 100% endorsement. Jim Inhofe. I'd give it to James too, but he's not running this time. Thank you. Jim, great job. Thank you very much. What a great senator he is. Also here is a man who's respected by so many. He's a little bit right of the people we've been talking about tonight. Senator Tom Cotton of the great state of Arkansas. Thank you, Tom. They like you people. Crowd Member. Patriot. The President. Thank you, Tom. Great job you're doing. We're glad to be joined as well by a man that I've gotten to know. He's done an incredible job with COVID and with everything else he touches, Governor Kevin Stitt. Thank you both. Thank you both for being here. Thank you. Lieutenant Governor Matt Pinnell. Thanks, Matt. Thanks, Matt. And Representatives Frank Lucas, Tom Cole. He's been here for a little while. He's done an incredible job. Markwayne Mullin, you don't wanna fight with him. I wanna put him and Jim Jordan in a match together, I want to. Kevin Hern, great job today, Kevin. The great Jim Jordan, Jim Jordan. Elise Stefanik. Lee Zeldin. Tom Emmer. Tom, thank you. These are warriors, folks. These are great warriors. During the fake impeachment trial, I'll tell you what. There was nobody that could have done the job they've done. That includes the Senate and the House. These people are incredible. David Kustoff. David. A great friend of mine, Debbie Lesko, Arizona. Great job, Debbie. Great job. And a man who's got very good genes, Greg Pence. Thank you all. Great job. They're great— They are, they're warriors. I'll tell you what. Not every person is, but this group is, and we have a lot of them in Washington, and we'll send Jim Inhofe back, and we'll send all of them. You'll send every one of them. They have to come back because they have been fighting for us, and they've been fighting for you. And they are just incredible, talented, tough, strong people that love your state a lot. So thank you very much. So we built the greatest single economy in the world. And then we say not only the world, but actually in the history of the world, and they never even challenged me. So I guess I'm right. We did it. We had the best numbers anybody's ever had. We have the best employment numbers, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, the best employment numbers in history, the best stock market numbers in history. We were the envy of the world. Everybody would come in to see me, presidents, prime minister, kings, queens, and dictators. Dictators would even come in to say, "Congratulations on the economy." And then the plague came in, and now what we're doing is we're doing it again. And it's going fast. We have to have a lot of it done because people don't quite get it. It's— We're doing record business. It's happening at a level and a speed that nobody can believe. Two weeks ago, job numbers came in, the single biggest number in the history of our country. Last week, last week, retail sales numbers came in, retail sales, the single greatest number in the history of our country. So here's what's going to happen. Here's what's going to happen. They blame a president for anything. When you see looters, even though we put them down, if we didn't stop them, nobody would, because the other side will never stop them. But they always blame a president. Here's what's happening. We're going up. We're going up. We're going up. We're gonna go up. Then we're gonna hit October. We're gonna be up. We're gonna be way up. We're not gonna be where we were, but in many ways, other than all of the horrible, horrible death that was so needlessly caused by a virus that should have been stopped where it originated, which was China. But we're gonna go up, up, up, up August, September, October, and people are gonna say, "Man, this guy is doing a good job. He knows what he's doing. I don't believe the fake news anymore." And you're not gonna wanna lose your 401(k)'s. And you're not gonna wanna lose all of that wealth that you've accumulated, whether it's real estate wealth or any wealth you can think because it'll all come tumbling down if these people are put in charge. And if they double and triple and quadruple your taxes, it'll be a whole different ball game. So I'm not putting any pressure on anybody, but in the end, we're gonna have a phenomenal economy. And next year we're gonna have a good third quarter, but next year, and I said it before, will be the single greatest year economically that we've ever had, okay? And if you see that happening, if you see it happening on November 3rd, you don't have the guts to vote against Trump. You, even you, you don't have the guts to vote against Trump. Say, "Wait a minute, darling. My 401(k) is higher than it was the last time. I don't think I wanna take a chance." You're not gonna wanna do that. The stock market has been the best. Think of this, go back one week and go back 50 days. In that 50-day period, it's the strongest 50 days in the history of the stock market, think of it. And your wife or your husband says, "Darling, I love you so much. You are such a great investor." And all you did is just keep the same crap you had the first time. Right? "Darling, I love you so much. You've always been a loser. You've always lost money. But now under President Trump, you're one of the greatest financial minds in our country." And all you did was keep your stock. Now, if you think you're going to run against— Oh, they're going crazy. They want the stock market to go down. Even if it costs them money. They want the stock market to go down even if it costs them money, and they don't even know why. You know what, they're smart and they're vicious, but they don't know why. I'm telling you, they don't know why. What's wrong with having the strongest military, brand-new, in the world, all ? What's wrong with having these great economic numbers? What's wrong with having to close it down? We saved millions of lives. You know, a lot of people say we should have gone herd, let's go herd. Ask them, how are they doing in Brazil? He's a great friend of mine, not good. You heard about Sweden, right? Too much. Ask them how they're doing in Sweden. We saved millions of lives, and now it's time to open up, get back to work, okay? Get back to work. I recently signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform. I secured record and permanent funding for historically Black colleges and universities. We slashed regulations and passed massive tax cuts to give Black workers a pay raise like they've never, ever gotten before and lift up Black-owned businesses. And I worked closely with a great senator also, friend of theirs, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, to create Opportunity Zones, which are doing incredibly. And since then countless jobs and 100 billion dollars of new investment, not government investment, have poured into 9,000 of our most distressed neighborhoods anywhere in the country. Nine thousand, never happened before. Tim Scott. Today. I'm also announcing that I have directed Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt to place the John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park here in Tulsa on the African American Civil Rights Network. So many of my friends have been asking me to do that. So many of my friends, including these great politicians. So we're going to do that. It'll be done very quickly. We will forever remember and honor the courageous people who helped build this state and this country. Democrats are stoking division in order to distract from their decades of failure on schools, jobs, housing, justice, and crime. In major city public schools run by Democrats, over two thirds of students are falling behind in reading and math. And I think the numbers are worse than that. But Democrats would rather deny these children the future they deserve than allow them to attend the charter, public, private, religious, or independent schools of their choice. Pro-choice, pro-choice. Pro-choice for schools. It's very popular, but some people it's, like, a disaster because what it does to certain unions that have a lot of power over the Democrats, even though they know it's wrong. Republicans believe access to education is a civil right. It's a civil right. Twenty of 20 of the most dangerous cities in America are controlled by Democrats. Think of that, 20 of 20. And so is nearly every major city with a child poverty rate that's over 30%. They're controlled by Democrats. We can name every one of them. The murder rate in Baltimore and Detroit is higher than El Salvador, Guatemala, or even Afghanistan. How they doing, the Democrats running those cities? Your whole country will be like that. In 2018 alone, our police arrested nearly 12,000 people for murder and manslaughter, 25,000 people for rape, and nearly 1.5 million for assault, violent assault. The Democrats' push against our police will drive up crime and drive up costs at levels you'd never believe. Thousands of innocent lives will be lost. As president, I will always support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. A vote for Republicans is a vote for better schools, better jobs, safer families, and stronger communities for all Americans. There is a limit to what we can together achieve with four more years. With your help, we will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. That's what's happening, that's what's happening. And that was happening at a level that nobody ever thought they'd see, it was happening before this COVID came in. It was happening at a level that nobody believed possible. And then China sent us the plague, thank you very much. We will protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors. And we'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always, always. We will appoint more judges to interpret the Constitution as written. We will end deadly sanctuary cities. We will finish the wall, which has now 212 miles built and beautiful. Two hundred and twelve mile. That's a lot of miles. And let me tell you, you think that was an easy one, that was a tough one. That party was totally unified against building the wall. You know, in the end they gave up, you know what happened? They realized it was a bad issue for them because they— These open borders. I love when they fight for open borders because anybody that wants an open border coming in from rough areas, there's something wrong with those people. So did you notice in the end it was like, "Just leave us alone, build your wall, just leave us alone." I said, "Thank you very much." And we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration that puts American workers first. We will revitalize our cities, and we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, tunnels, and airports all across our land. We will enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA." It's so beautiful, so beautiful. "Made in the USA." That's happening too. We have so many plants coming into Michigan and so many other states. We have car plants coming in, would have never come if I wasn't president, would have never come. We will become the world's premier pharmacy, drug store, and medical manufacturer. That's already started. We're bringing it back. We will keep America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars. We will never hesitate to kill America's terrorist enemies. You know, when I took over, ISIS was all over the place, and I did something that I felt we should do. And we have now obliterated, we have now captured 100% of the ISIS caliphate. One hundred, 100. And like our depleted military when I took over, like our empty shelves, medically, when I took over, like all of the things that, when I took over, it was a mess, we have done a job. You had to see what ISIS was doing. They were getting bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger. I came in, smaller, smaller, smaller. "Sir, we've just taken 100%." We will launch a new age of American ambition in space and the United States will be the first nation to land on Mars, good program. You saw the beautiful rocket three weeks ago go up, beautiful. We will defend privacy, free thought, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And when you see those lunatics all over the streets, it's damn nice to have arms. Damn nice. Interesting how all of a sudden people understand it, right? You couldn't sell it. Now people understand it. The right to keep and bear arms, we'll protect your Second Amendment. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We will support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We uphold the principle of equal justice under the law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always salute our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, it will never change, "In God we trust." We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industries, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater and greater every single day. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning the power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America will soon be thriving like never before because, ladies and gentlemen of Oklahoma, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again——we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Oklahoma. Thank you. The President. Thank you. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly great to be back in the wonderful, beautiful State of Pennsylvania. I love this State, and I love the people of this State. It's special, and it carried us through a big, beautiful victory on November 8. I want to recognize some of our friends that have helped us so much. Congressman Scott Perry. G.T. Thompson. A couple of my originals, Mike Kelly—who I watched on television. He was great. Where's Mike Kelly? Where is Mike Kelly? He's here someplace. Where is he? Boy, were you great on television this morning. And, of course, one of our other originals, Congressman Tom Marino. Right? Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Tom. As you may know, there's another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington, DC. Did you hear about it? Audience members. Boo! The President. A large group of Hollywood actors—— Audience members. Boo! The President. —— and Washington media—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in our Nation's Capital right now. They are gathered together for the White House Correspondents' Dinner without the President. And I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be more than 100 miles away from Washington swamp, spending my evening with all of you, and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people. Right? Right? Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. And look at the media back there. They would actually rather be here, I have to tell you. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's right. Audience members. CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks! The President. Media outlets like CNN and MSNBC are fake news. Fake news. And they're sitting and they're wishing in Washington—they're watching right now, they're watching. And they would love to be with us right here tonight. But they're trapped at the dinner, which will be very, very boring. But next year, maybe we'll make it more exciting for them in Washington, and we'll show up. But we have a good chance of showing up here again next year too. The truth is, there is no place I'd rather be than right here in Pennsylvania to celebrate our 100-day milestone, to reflect on an incredible journey together, and to get ready for the great, great battles to come, and that we will win in every case, okay? We will win. Because make no mistake, we are just beginning in our fight to make America great again. Now, before we talk about my first 100 days, which has been very exciting and very productive, let's rate the media's 100 days. Should we do that? Audience members. Boo! The President. Should we do it? Because, as you know, they are a disgrace. According to a Morning Consult poll, more than half of Americans say the media "is out of touch with everyday Americans." And they've proven that. According to Media Research Center, 89 percent of the media's coverage of our administration has been negative—and purposely negative. Audience members. Boo! The President. And perhaps that's because, according to the Center for Public Integrity, 96 percent of journalists who made donations in the last election, gave them to our opponent. Does anybody remember who our opponent was? Huh? Audience members. Boo! The President. That was some opponent. Finally, according to a poll last year from the Associated Press, only 6 percent of Americans have a lot of confidence in America. That's very bad. That's much lower than Congress, by the way. But I'll give you an example of something really incredible. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's right, get them out of here. Get them out. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do we love our law enforcement, or what? And I want to thank the fire marshals. They have a lot of people standing outside. We really maxed out. We broke the alltime record for this arena. How old is this arena? This is not a—we broke the alltime record. And I don't have a guitar, which is pretty tough. So just as an example of media, take the totally failing New York Times. Audience members. Boo! The President. Pretty soon they'll only be on the internet. The paper is getting smaller and smaller. You haven't noticed? It's starting to look like a comic book, it's getting—. But I will tell you, because I watched, and I used to be in the real estate business. They sold their beautiful New York Times building in Manhattan—a cathedral to journalism, such a beautiful, beautiful building—for around $130 million. And a group that bought it later sold it for approximately $500 million. And now they live in a very ugly office building in a crummy location. Next, they buy the Boston Globe newspaper, with losses, for $1.3 billion, invest millions and millions and millions of dollars to get it going. And in the end, they sell it for zero; they give it away. And then, they write nasty editorials and op-eds telling me how I should be handling world events and our country. Tell me. Audience members. Boo! The President. But that's what we have. They're incompetent, dishonest people, who, after an election, had to apologize, because they covered it, us, me, but all of us—they covered it so badly that they felt they were forced to apologize, because their predictions were so bad. You remember their predictions? They lost a lot of people because of the way they covered. So here's the story. If the media's job is to be honest and tell the truth, then I think we would all agree the media deserves a very, very, big fat failing grade. Audience members. Boo! The President. Very dishonest people. And not all of them. You know, we call it the "fake news." Not all of them. You notice now, they're using—everybody is using the word fake news. Where did you hear it first, folks? By contrast, for the last 100 days, my administration has been delivering every single day for the great citizens of our country. Whether it's putting our coal miners back to work, protecting America's steel and aluminum workers—we love that steel and aluminum—or eliminating job-killing regulations, we are keeping one promise after another. And frankly, the people are really happy about it. They see what's happening. But to understand the historic progress that we've made, we must speak honestly about the situation that we and I inherited. Because believe me, the previous administration gave us a mess. Audience members. Boo! The President. For decades, our country has lived through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. You people know it better than anybody, in Pennsylvania. Our factories were shuttered, our steel mills closed down, and our jobs were stolen away and shipped far away to other countries, some of which you've never even heard of. Politicians sent troops to protect the borders of foreign nations, but left America's borders wide open for all to violate. We've spent billions and billions of dollars on one global project after another, and yet, as gangs flooded into our country, we couldn't even provide safety for our own people. Our Government rushed to join international agreements where the United States pays the costs and bears the burdens, while other countries get the benefit and pay nothing. Audience members. Boo! The President. This includes deals like the one-sided Paris climate accord, where the United States pays billions of dollars, while China, Russia, and India have contributed and will contribute nothing. Audience members. Boo! The President. Does that remind you of the Iran deal? How about that beauty, right? On top of all of that, it's estimated that full compliance with the agreement could ultimately shrink America's GDP by $2.5 trillion over a 10-year period. That means factories and plants closing all over our country. Here we go again. Not with me, folks. Those are the facts, whether we like them or not. The dishonest media won't print them, won't report them, because the Washington media is part of the problem: their priorities are not my priorities and they're not your priorities, believe me. Their agenda is not your agenda. And I'll be making a big decision on the Paris accord over the next 2 weeks. And we will see what happens. But they're all part of a broken system that has profited from this global theft and plunder of American wealth at the expense of the American worker. We are not going to let other countries take advantage of us anymore. Because, from now on, it's going to be America first. And I have to—— Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. And I have to just interject, because, as you know, I've been a big critic of China, and I've been talking about currency manipulation for a long time. But I have to tell you that, during the election, number one, they stopped. But more importantly, just to show you the dishonesty—so we have currency manipulation by China, but China is helping us possibly, or probably, with the North Korean situation, okay? Which is a great thing. Great thing. And I met with the President of China at great length in Florida, and we had long, long talks, hours and hours and hours. He's a good man. Now, he's representing China. He's not representing us. But he's a good man. And I believe he wants to get that situation taken care of. They have tremendous power, and we'll see what happens. But the media said, Donald Trump refuses to name China a currency manipulator. Now, think of this, think of this. Right? Now, we have to have a little flexibility. So I meet with the President of China, and I say, could you help us out with North Korea? You know, you give them 93 percent of their different materials that they need and their food and—you have a lot of power. We have a great relationship. And then the media said, why didn't he call Donald Trump, and why didn't Donald Trump, at a meeting, say you're a currency manipulator? So here's the story. "Listen, Mr. President, will you help us out with North Korea? But by the way, you're manipulating your currency." It doesn't work, right? So instead of—you understand. So instead of saying that, let's see what happens. I honestly believe that he's trying very hard. Not an easy situation for China, believe me. Not an easy situation. But we have somebody there who's causing a lot of trouble for the world. We have China, who is really trying to help us. You've seen—they've sent back vast amounts of coal coming out of North Korea. So let's see what happens. And I think it's not exactly the right time to call China a currency manipulator right now. Do we agree with that? But they never say that. They say, why didn't he do it. So I promised you in my Inaugural Address, 100 days ago, that now arrives the hour of action. And we've, believe me, started from day one. And that is what we've delivered: 100 days of action. In fact, those people and others are exhausted. They've never seen anything like that. They've never seen anything like this. We are ending the offshoring and bringing back our beautiful, wonderful, great American jobs. We are eradicating the criminal gangs and cartels that have infiltrated our country. You're reading about them all the time. Some of you have big problems with them. Thank you for that sign: "Blacks for Trump." I love that guy. "Blacks for Trump." Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, man. That's great. That's really cool. I appreciate it. And we're taking steps to renegotiate or cancel any agreement that fails to protect American interests. Here are just some of our great achievements from the first 100 days. And I will tell you, in addition to that, we have built such strong foundations with the leaders of foreign countries. And we're set to rock. But we have great relationships with Germany and Japan and China and so many others, the U.K. Such great relationships. That's part of the process. We've appointed and confirmed a brand new Justice of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Neil Gorsuch, who will uphold the Constitution and the right of Americans to govern their own affairs. And the last time a new Supreme Court Justice was confirmed in the first 100 days was 136 years ago, in 1881. And I was devastated to hear that, because I thought I'd be the only to have done that. A long time ago. To protect our jobs and our economic freedom, I immediately withdrew the United States from the horrible, disastrous, would have been another NAFTA but worse, Trans-Pacific Partnership. That would have taken your jobs in Pennsylvania—that I can tell you. That was a total hoax. The TPP would have been a tremendous disaster for our country, and we are not going to surrender Pennsylvania jobs ever again. We've done that once before. It's not going to happen. We've just launched an investigation into foreign steel dumping and aluminum dumping throughout our country. We are reviewing every single trade deal, and wherever there is cheating, we will take immediate action and there will be penalties. And we have with us tonight, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, and one of the great, great people on fair trade and good trade, Mr. Peter Navarro. Thank you. Thank you. And we will renegotiate NAFTA. And if we don't get a good deal and a fair deal for our country—and I've been saying for a long time, we'll either renegotiate or we'll terminate. I announced the other day, we were going to terminate. Everybody said we'll terminate. Two people that I like very much—the President of Mexico, Prime Minister of Canada—they called up. They said, could we negotiate? I said, yes, we can renegotiate. So we'll start a renegotiation, and hopefully, it will be fair for everybody. And if it's not a fair deal for our country—because you have to understand, we have been on the wrong side of the NAFTA deal with Canada and with Mexico for many, many years, many decades. We can't allow it to happen. So we're going to renegotiate. And if we can't make a fair deal for our companies and our workers, we will terminate NAFTA, okay? Our directives will put brand new Pennsylvania steel into the spine of America. We've ordered billions and billions of dollars in unpaid duties to be collected at the border from countries that break the rules. And that just started. It's going to be a lot coming in. We just want fairness. And I've followed through on my promise and issued a new Government directive to buy American and hire American. In just these first few months, we've created 99,000 new construction jobs, 49,000 new manufacturing jobs, and 27,000 new mining jobs. Who are the miners here? The miners—finally, we're taking care of our miners. We love our miners. And we have over 600,000 new jobs. And, by the way, the stock market, since our election, is through the roof. I believe, from the point of the election, isn't it too bad that the Obama administration gets a lot of credit for those couple of months, but—— Audience members. Boo! The President. It's all right. Because we're doing fine, but they get credit for that because people started going wild with the stock. But I believe we have a record, from the time we got elected—from November 8—we have a record, an alltime record, for the biggest increase in the stock market. So I'm very happy about that. We've removed the shackles on energy exploration imposed by the last administration, lifting the restrictions on the production of oil, shale, and natural gas. And, very importantly for Pennsylvania, we have ended the war on beautiful, clean coal, and we are putting our great coal miners back to work. We love our miners. I am also very pleased to say that we have finally cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines—48,000 new jobs. They couldn't get their approvals. We got them their approvals in 24 hours—1 day. And I want to tell you, the heads of those two companies, they didn't know what the hell happened. They said, how did this happen? They should go to bed and say their prayers. But that's going to be approximately 48,000 jobs. My administration has also scrapped a job-killing regulation that was threatening our auto workers. We want more cars made in the U.S.A. And that's going to happen. We've created a new rule which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. And we have signed massive Executive orders, clearing up the environmental bureaucracy. We're going to have jobs, and you're seeing them already. We've also been very busy on the legislative front, which we have gotten no credit for, and yet I am signing away. I've signed 29 new bills—a record not surpassed since the Truman administration. This includes 13 resolutions to eliminate intrusive Federal regulations—the most ever signed in our history. In keeping our promise to our veterans, I've signed legislation to extend Veterans Choice. And David, the head of the Veterans Administration, is here with us tonight. David Shulkin. He's done an incredible job. And we've increased by, 42 percent, the approval for veterans using the Choice program. I've also created an Office of Accountability at the VA. Our message to Federal workers is clear: If you fail our veterans, you will be held accountable. First time. To create accountability across Government, I've issued a 5-year ban on Federal officials becoming lobbyists after they leave Government service. Good? I've got a lot of people in my staff who are not exactly happy with that one, but that's okay. And I've issued a lifetime ban on Federal officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government. I've imposed these bans for a simple reason: It is time to drain the swamp. And that's what we're doing in Washington, DC. Perhaps in no area have past Governments sold out special interests and foreign lobbyists more than on the issue of immigration. Year after year, you pleaded for Washington to enforce our laws as illegal immigration surged, refugees flooded in, and lax vetting threatened your family's safety and security. Your pleas have finally been—— Audience member. Build the wall! The President. Oh, don't worry, we're going to have the wall. Don't worry about it. Audience members. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! The President. You know, we've done so well at the border, a lot of people are saying, oh, wow, maybe the President doesn't need the wall. We need the wall to stop the drugs and the human trafficking. We need the wall. In just 100 days, we have taken historic steps to secure our border, impose needed immigration control like you've never seen before—is that true?—and properly screen and vet those seeking admission into our country. They are going to come in because they love our country. We're not taking them otherwise. We are operating on a very simple principle: that our immigration system should put the needs of American workers, American families, American companies, and American citizens first. I appointed a great military general, John Kelly, to lead the Department of Homeland Security. Since my election, we've already achieved an unprecedented 73 percent reduction in illegal crossings on our southern border; the greatest reduction in the history of our country. And we just started. The world is getting the message: If you try to illegally enter the United States, you will be caught, detained, deported, or put in prison, and it will happen. As I campaigned across the Nation, I met with the grieving mothers and fathers of children who had been killed—viciously killed, violently killed—by illegal immigrants. And I made them a promise: We will protect American lives. Your family member will not have died in vain. Last week, we opened an office to support the victims of immigration crime, called VOICE, to make sure that no American victim is ever again ignored by their Government. Not going to happen anymore. And many people are now talking, as I just said, and using this tremendous early progress on the border to say we don't need the kind of safety that we really do need, including the wall. We need safety. We need cameras. We need all of the things that we're going to be putting in, and we need the wall. And we will build a wall as sure as you are standing there tonight. We need the wall. Audience members. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! The President. We'll build the wall, folks. Don't even worry about it. Go to sleep. Go home, go to sleep. Rest assured. That's the final thing—we need it. We need it. And if the Democrats knew what the hell they were doing, they'd approve it so easy, because we want to stop crime in our country. Obviously, they don't mind illegals coming in. They don't mind drugs pouring in. They don't mind—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——excuse me, MS-13 coming in. We're getting them all out of here. Members of Congress who will be voting on border security have a simple choice. They can either vote to help drug cartels and criminal aliens trying to enter the United States, like, frankly, the Democrats are doing. Or they can vote to help American citizens and American families be safe. That's the choice. Who do you want to represent you? Unfortunately, Democrats in Congress have no leadership. They're rudderless. Senator Schumer is a bad leader. Audience members. Boo! The President. I've known him a long time. Senator Schumer is a bad leader, not a natural leader at all. He works hard to study leadership. When you have to study leadership, you've got problems. And his policies are hurting innocent Americans and making it easier for drug dealers to enter our country. Schumer is weak on crime and wants to raise your taxes through the roof. Audience members. Boo! The President. He is a poor leader—known him a long time—and he's leading the Democrats to doom. It's sad to see for our country what's happening to the Democrat Party. At the heart of my administration's efforts to restore the rule of law has been a nationwide crackdown on criminal gangs. And that means taking the fight to the sanctuary cities that shield these dangerous criminals from removal. The last, very weak administration allowed thousands and thousands of gang members to cross our borders and enter into our communities where they wreaked havoc on our citizens. As you know, the bloodthirsty cartel, known as MS-13, has infiltrated our schools, threatening innocent children. We've seen the horrible assaults and many killings all over Long Island, where I grew up. We have seen the vicious spread of transnational gangs into all 50 States and the human suffering they bring with them. I've been with the parents; I've seen the parents. It's devastation. A very respected general recently told me that MS-13 are the equivalent in their meanness to Al Qaida. My administration will not rest until we have dismantled these violent gangs, and we're doing it rapidly, and we're sending them the hell out of our country. We're sending them back home where they belong. One by one, we're finding the illegal immigrant drug dealers, gang members, and killers, and removing them from our country. And once they are gone, folks—you see what we're doing—they will not let them back in. They're not coming back. In this effort to restore safety to our country, we are going to strongly support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. I just signed an Executive order directing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to combat crimes of violence against our police, and the Department of Justice is now prioritizing the prosecution of criminals who attack officers of the law. And we are also working around the clock to keep our Nation safe from terrorism. My administration has taken historic steps to improve screening and vetting for those seeking visas to enter the United States. We have seen the attacks, from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino. We have seen the bloodshed overseas. You look at what's happening in other countries. We already have enough problems to worry about in the United States, which we love so much. We don't need to be admitting people who want to oppress, hurt, or kill innocent Americans. They're not coming in. So let me state this as clearly as I possibly can: We are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. So I have a question for you. You've been to a lot of rallies, you've seen a lot of rallies. First of all, is there any place like a Trump rally? In all fairness. Right? So I did this a little bit during the rally. Haven't done it in a long time. Who has heard the poem called "The Snake"? So I have it. Does anybody want to hear it again? Audience members. Yes! The President. You sure? Are you sure? Audience members. Yes! The President. Okay. So let's dedicate this to General Kelly, the Border Patrol, and the ICE agents for doing such an incredible job. Right? This was written by Al Wilson a long time ago. And I thought of it having to do with our borders and people coming in. And we know that we're going to have—we're going to have problems. We have to very, very carefully vet. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. So here it is, "The Snake." It's called "The Snake": On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, A tender-hearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. "Poor thing!" she cried. "I'll take you in, and I'll take care of you." The border. "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the vicious snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk, And laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night, and as soon as she arrived, She found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been revived. "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed that vicious snake. She clutched him to her bosom, "You're so beautiful," she cried. "But if I hadn't brought you in by now, oh, heavens you would have died." She stroked his pretty skin again and kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying, "thank you," that snake gave her a vicious bite! "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the vicious snake. "I have saved you," cried the woman. "And you've bitten me, heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous, and now I'm going to die." "Oh, shut up, silly woman," said the reptile with a grin. "You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in." Does that explain it, folks? Does that explain it? Keeping America safe also means rebuilding our defenses. Under the leadership of General "Mad Dog" Mattis——and he is doing great, he is doing great. And, by the way, he is the man that recommended General Kelly. I said, Mad Dog, you got to give me a great general for the border. He gave me a great general, General Kelly. We have begun the process of rebuilding our military and restoring full readiness. We are also protecting taxpayer dollars. I've already saved more than $725 million on a simple order of F-35 planes. I got involved in the negotiation. And there's billions of dollars to be saved on that and many other things. We've also stepped up the fight against ISIS, and we will not stop until ISIS has been destroyed. At the same time, we've strengthened our friendships and alliances all around the world. For instance, we were very proud to quietly work with the Egyptian Government last week to ensure that an American citizen, a beautiful young woman named Aya, came home after being in an Egyptian prison for the past 3 years. She was going to be there for another 28 years. President Obama worked diligently for 3 years; didn't get them out. I met with President Elsisi, and it worked out quickly, and he was great. He was great about it. And not only did the court system in Egypt and President Elsisi let her out, but they let out her husband, and they let out a total of eight people that were innocent. And they're all back here right now. Now, they won't include that in the hundred days, but I'm very proud to have done it. And she's a happy, young woman, believe me. She's very happy. I said, "How tough, Aya, was it in that prison?" She said, you don't want to know. That was a tough prison. We're also getting NATO countries to finally step up and contribute their fair share. They've begun to increase their contributions by billions of dollars, but we are not going to be satisfied until everyone pays what they owe. And I've been complaining about that for a long time. And it's a lot different now, but they still a lot of money. Over the last 8 years, America's average military and defense spending was double what all other NATO countries spent, combined. Not fair. As we work to get other countries to pay their fair share abroad, we will continue our rebuilding at home. We're rebuilding everything, including, by the way, our great military. We will have the finest military that we've ever had at any time in the history of our country. Last week, my economic team outlined one of the biggest tax cuts in American history, even bigger than that of Ronald Reagan. We are proposing major tax relief for the middle class and lowering the business tax from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent. Now, you will see companies expand, companies come back into our country, companies not leave our country anymore because taxes and regulations are so onerous. You will see what happens. Let me also be very clear in saying that we are going to save Americans' health care and repeal and replace that disaster known as Obamacare, which is dying, dying, dying. Obamacare is dead anyway, folks. You know, they always like to compare—well, what about Obama—Obamacare is dead. It's gone. The increases were massive last year, they're going to be bigger this year, and the insurance companies are fleeing. One of the top people in the insurance industry said Obamacare is in a death spiral, there's nothing they can do. So they can't compare something to it because it won't be there very long. Believe me—can't be there very long. It's not working. It's been a failure. Under Obamacare, we have seen double- and triple-digit hikes in premiums, and many Americans left with only a single insurer to choose from. And now, many of those insurers are fleeing also. You have places like the great State of Tennessee, where I left 2 weeks ago, where half of the State already has no insurance carrier. And many others. So Obamacare is a catastrophe created exclusively by the Democrats in Congress. And they know it's no good. They know it's not working. And by the way, we're going to get something great. We're going to get the premiums down. We're going to get the deductibles way down. We're going to take care of every single need you're going to want to have taken care of. But it's not going to cost that kind of money. We're going to bring it down. You're going to see it. Premiums down. We will repeal and replace Obamacare. You watch. We're going to give Americans the freedom to purchase the health care plans they want, not the health care forced on them by the Government. And I'll be so angry at Congressman Kelly and Congressman Marino and all of our Congressmen in this room if we don't get that damn thing passed quickly. They'll get it done. We know them. They'll get it done. In all things, we are returning power to the people where it belongs. We're going to defend the Second Amendment and your right to keep and bear arms. We are going to bring education local, and we are going to end Common Core. We are going to stop Federal overreach and defend the God-given rights of every American family. Just imagine what we could accomplish if we all started working together to rebuild this Nation, the Nation that we so dearly love. Our jobs will come back home, our dying factories will come roaring back to life. It will be a beautiful thing to watch. And this is what's going to happen in the United States of America, and it's going to happen soon. And it's actually already happening. Cities small and large will see a rebirth of hope, safety, and opportunity. America's children will be taught to love their country and take pride in our great American flag. And other countries—and you see that happening—will finally treat America and our citizens with the respect that our country and our citizens deserve. It's time for all of us to remember that we are one people with one great American destiny, and that whether we are Black or Brown or White, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots. And we all share the same glorious freedoms of our magnificent country. We are all made by the same Almighty God. As long as we remember these truths, we will not fail. We will never fail. We are Americans, and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. So with hope in our souls and patriotism in our hearts, I say these words to you tonight, on 100 days of devotion, hard work, and love for our great country: Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America prosper again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again! Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. The President. Thank you very much, El Paso. Thank you very much — — Thank you. I am very, very thrilled to be here in the great State of Texas — — right on the banks of the legendary Rio Grande, whereby the—well, I don't know, you heard, right? Today we started a big, beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande — — Right smack on the Rio Grande. I love this state, and I love the people of this state. We've had a great romance together. You know, that. It's been a great romance and we're only getting stronger together. That's what's happening. Wow. Look at all the press back—you believe that? This is like the Academy Awards used to be, used to be. They've gone down a long way since they started hitting us a little bit, right? They've gone down. That was a long—that was a long fall, but there they are. Last week I was honored to stand in the House Chamber to deliver the State of the Union. And I asked both parties to come together to choose greatness for America . Since taking office two years ago our economy is now the hottest economy anywhere on Earth. Our military, which desperately needed funding, we went $700 billion and $716 billion, is more powerful than ever before. That was not a good situation. It was tired and depleted. Our great warriors were not taken care of. Now they're taken care of again the way they should be. And America is winning again. Isn't that nice? We're fighting for all Americans, from all backgrounds of every age, race, religion, birthplace, color, creed. We're fighting for ourselves. We're fighting for all Americans. And what is it, America first? Remember, it's America first. Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. Our agenda is not a partisan agenda, although some people say it is. Every once in a while, it does become that way, right? It's a mainstream, common sense agenda of the American people. It's where we want to be and where we want to go. And despite the fact that the media refuses to acknowledge what we've done and how well we're doing it — — A new poll just came out as I was coming on and it shows—I don't know how you can do this I don't think I've had a good story in years. I don't get good—I used to get great press until I decided to run for office. And we have done together, an incredible job. And a new poll just came out today. Rasmussen, one of the most respected polls, one of the polls that got the election right. So I have to remember that, you know what the number is, 52 percent, with no good news. Explain that. Explain that. Explain that. How do you get that when you don't get good press? I guess 93 percent of the stories are negative. No matter what we do, they figure out a way to make it bad. Like, I'll give you a quick example. When I came in, North Korea was—it looks like it was going to war. You know that. It was gonna happen, bad things. Now you have no missile launches. You have no rocket testing. You have no nuclear testing. I have a good relationship, maybe even a great relationship. We have tremendous sanctions on North Korea. But we have our hostages back. We have—remains are coming back. Remains. And our presidents have been dealing with North Korea for many, many decades, many, many decades. And on a nuclear way over the last 20, 30 years. And all I hear is, "Can't you move faster?" You know what? I left Singapore 15 months ago, they've been negotiating for 85 years or something. So now their complaint is, "What's taking him so long?" I heard one of our great geniuses, uh, from a previous administration telling me how to negotiate with North Korea when they got taken advantage of like nobody I've ever seen before. So, some day, with all of us, this is all of us—and those hats are beautiful, by the way Someday——true. Someday they're going to appreciate us all. And I'm going to Vietnam. To Hanoi, in the near future, 27th and 28th of February, to have another summit. And hope we—hopefully, we do as well with the second summit as we did with the first. I hope so. Now, we're delighted, and I'm delighted to be joined this evening by the Texas leaders. You have great leaders, great people, great help to me. That are at the forefront of this incredible American Revolution. You know, there's never been anything like this in the history of our country. We have to understand that. There's never been. If you would say, as an example, that tonight, 69,000 people signed up to be here. Now, the arena holds 8,000, and thank you fire department, they got in about 10, thank you fire department. Appreciate it. But if you want to really see something, go outside, tens of thousands of people are watching screens outside . Tens of thousands. And we were all challenged by a young man who lost an election to Ted Cruz. And then they said, "You know what? Hey, you're supposed to win in order to run. By the way, we, I, we, I'm one and one, I'm one for one. Think of it. We had one election, we won, now we're going to be 2 for 0 and everything's going to be perfect. But a young man who's got very little going for himself, except he's got a great first name. He has—he challenged us. So, we have, let's say, 35,000 people tonight and he has 200 people, 300 people, not too good. In fact, what I do, what I would do is I would say, "that may be the end of his presidential bid." But he did challenge us. So, I want to introduce some great people. Your Governor, Greg Abbott. Greg. Where is he? Where's Greg? Thank you, Greg. And a great governor and a great friend of mine. Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Thanks Dan. Thank you, Dan. Look at him in the corner, so shy. Thank you, Dan. Great job, Dan. Attorney General Ken Paxton. Thanks, Ken. And Agriculture Commissioner, Sid Miller. Thank you, Sid. Thank you, everybody. Thanks, Ken. Great job you do. And we're especially grateful to your wonderful Senators, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. Great Senators. Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. And we have a lot of your Congress men and women. We have a lot of them. Are you ready? And they're terrific. And they've been with us all the way. Pete Olson. Pete. Thanks, Pete. Thank you, Pete. Michael Burgess. Thanks, Michael. John Carter. Brian Babin. And Randy Weber. Thank you very much. We are in the midst of an economic miracle. That's what's happened. You look all over the world and you study, and you see what's going on. You can look at China. We have a team right now in China. They want to make a deal very badly. Those tariffs are costing them a lot of money and they're going into our Treasury, remember that we're filling up with billions of dollars. And did you see the, you know, I haven't been here very long, the trade deficit really went down very big this last month, and people are saying, "Whoa." I told you so. That's what I do. That's what I do. And we don't want China to have a hard time. Thank you. Thank you. I—I can only tell you this, we're going to make great deals on trade. We're going to make great deals on military. When we defend another nation that's rich, they have to help us out. Do we agree? They have to help us out. And they're doing it. They're doing it. You saw South Korea they were paying us $500 million a year. I say you got to do-do more. You gotta do more. Anyway. Now they're up to almost $900 million, that was like on two phone calls. I said—I said, "Why didn't they do this before?" They said, "Nobody ever asked. Nobody asked." You pick up almost $500 million a year. Nobody asked. We're defending rich countries. They've gotta help us out, folks. They've gotta help us out, sorry. And you know what? They're going like us more and maybe more importantly, they going to respect us. Since the election, we have created 5.3 million new jobs, including more than a half a million new manufacturing jobs. Remember, manufacturing was dead? They said manufacturing was dead, the previous administration. You'll never have it. You need the magic wand. That's what they said. We obviously, we found the magic wand. And by the way, those numbers 'r small compared to what's happening, compared to all of the companies that are moving in. The unemployment— Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. —Thank you very much. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans have reached the lowest level in the history of our country. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Crowd. Trump! Trump! Trump! Trump! The President. Are you all right? Everything okay? Please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And women have filled almost 60 percent of the new jobs created last year, which were a record number. We passed massive tax cuts for working families and we canceled a record number of job killing regulations. That's why your oil and gas is coming back. We eliminated the Obamacare individual mandate. And to give critically ill patients access to life saving treatments, we did something that they haven't been able to do for a long time, we passed Right to Try. Right to Try. That's an incredible thing, Right to Try. You know, we have the greatest doctors and research in the world. And if somebody was terminally ill, they traveled to Asia, they traveled to Europe, they'd travel all over the world, if they had the money. If they didn't have the money, they'd just go home, there was nothing they could do. And I said, "Wait a minute. We have drugs in the pipeline that are showing tremendous progress. If somebody is terminally ill let's let them have access to our drugs. Let's let 'em have access." And it's much tougher than you would think. But we got it, and people, you will not understand, nobody understands, the lifesaving effects, it's incredible what's going on. They are getting better. People are getting better that were thinking they were going to die. It's Right to Try, I love it. I always wondered why we didn't do it before. Now, the people in Texas won't care much about this, but the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas on earth. I didn't think you'd care about that. I didn't think Texas would care about that. And listen to this. And Texas oil production is now at the highest level it's ever been. And only for the great oil professionals in the room, we're getting those pipelines approved so fast you'll be able to practically double up on oil production, oil and gas. They're getting approved at record levels and record time. That means more money, more security, and more independence for our country—it's very simple. Another one they said could never get passed, they've been trying to do it for 40 years. We passed VA Choice, Veterans Choice. So that now, rather than waiting online for five days, for nine days, for three weeks – Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. Where do these people come from? Where do they come from? They go back home to Mommy. They get punished when they get home. Crowd. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! The President. Now, you really mean "Finish that wall," because we've built a lot of it. It's finished already. But before we get to the wall. So, VA Accountability and VA Choice. Accountability, we couldn't fire anybody from the Veterans Administration. We couldn't fire anybody. They could treat our veterans badly. We had to take it. Now, you get rid of 'em. And VA Choice, they'd wait online for days and weeks, they couldn't see a doctor. Now, they go out, they have a choice. They get a private doctor. They have things taken care of and we pay their bill. They've been trying to get those two things fixed for many, many decades, many years, and we got it fixed. We also passed the Farm bill for our wonderful farmers, ranchers, and growers. Just got it. We just got it passed and that wasn't easy, but we got it passed. We had to do it. Our farmers are great. So, we just get that done, farmers, ranchers, growers. And we passed historic legislation to combat the Opioid Crisis. Crowd. Trump! Trump! Trump! Trump! The President. Thank you. Crowd. Nah, nah, nah nah. Nah, nah, nah nah. Hey, hey, hey, goodbye. The President. Thank you. Is there any place that's more fun to be that a Trump rally, is there any place? You know, they all said, "Mr. President, we loved the tone of your State of the Union speech." Some people said it was a great speech. Some people said, "Really a great speech." I said, "But if I ever did that in El Paso, Texas, it wouldn't, uh, work here too well," do you agree? Nice and calm. Nah , that's not what you're looking for. This is more fun. This is more fun. And we just signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform into law. Nobody thought that was going to be happening. In my address last week, I asked lawmakers in both parties to cross the aisle and join together for the common good for all Americans. Democrats have to stop being so angry. They're angry. And they've got to start being partners to keep this incredible—really, look, is just an incredible miracle that's going on? We want to keep it going. Keep it going, and it will keep going. It will keep going. There's so much to celebrate in our country, the economy, the military, so many things we've done scientifically. The world is trying to copy what we've done; they're not going to be able to do it. Not anymore. They were catching up fast, now they're going in the wrong direction. Wrong direction. Unfortunately, many of the Democrats in Congress responded to my call for bipartisan cooperation by instead choosing really—hey, look, did you ever see anything—radical resistance, it's the radical left. But maybe it'll change. Maybe it'll change. It all has to do with 2020 and the election. But I really don't like their policy of taking away your car, of taking away your airplane flights, of "Let's hop a train to California." Of—you're not allowed to own cows anymore. You know, a lot of problems. A lot of problems. But nobody's ever had this. And by the way, with us, we handle it. No president should ever have to go through what we've gone through in the first two years. It's a hoax. It's a disgrace, and it should never be allowed to happen again. A hoax. Just recently, as an example, Senator Richard Burr, from the great State of North Carolina. He's chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and they've been investigating this Russia hoax for two years. Think of it. They've interviewed over 200 people. They've studied hundreds of thousands of documents and pages and Richard just announced that they found no collusion between Donald Trump and Russia. Collusion. The fact is, that the real collusion was between Hillary and the Democrats and the other side with Russia, that's where the collusion is. That's where the collusion is. Crowd. Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! The President. That's starting to make a lot more sense. But that's where the collusion is, with the Democrats, and with Russia, and with others. And by the way, there's also collusion between the Democrats and the fake news right here. And they know it better than anybody. Crowd. The President. Too many Democrats are focused on tearing down their opposition instead of building up our country. They're trying to impose some of the most extreme measures and policies ever put forward by our Congress. And by the way, I don't think anybody in this room wants to pay 70, 80, 90 and 95 percent tax. Does anybody want to pay a 90 percent tax? You know, you look at what we've done with jobs, what we've done with the economy, how low your taxes are, the lowest they've been almost from the beginning, who the hell wants to change what we're doing now? We are a hot, hot country. Last week they introduced a massive government takeover that would destroy our incredible economic gains. They introduced the so-called Green New Deal. It sounds like a high school term paper that got a low mark. It would shut down American energy, which I don't think the people in Texas are going to be happy with that. It would shut down a little thing called air travel. How do you take a train to Europe? You know, this—this crazy senator from Hawaii, they said, "Do you like it?" "Yes, I like it very much." Oh, really, how are we getting to Hawaii on a train? She didn't think about that one but she's thinking about it. She'll figure it out. They want to take away your car, reduce the value of your home, and put millions of Americans out of work, spend $100 trillion, which by the way, there's no such thing as $100 trillion, you have to spend $100 trillion—and remember this, no other country except us is going to do it. That's a little problem, too. While the world's real polluters, like China, would get many of our companies and factories, they'd just move into China, move into other parts of the world. That's the way the system works. Not gonna happen folks. Don't worry, it's not going to happen. Not going to happen. $100 trillion. Let's spend $100 trillion. Let's rip down every building in New York City and rebuild it environmentally slightly better. To pave the way for socialism, Democrats are calling for massive tax hikes and the complete elimination of private health care. Many of us have private health care. That means you can stand on line for five days as you wait for a doctor that is not nearly as talented as your doctor. Remember? "You can keep your doctor." Remember that? Twenty-eight times, "You can keep it." That didn't happen. It turned out to be a lie. Hey, where are the fact checkers? You know, some of the most dishonest people in media are the so-called fact checkers. Twenty-eight times, "You can keep your doctor." That didn't turn out to be what he said. They're coming for your money and they're coming for your freedom and it'll never happen, and it won't even come close, folks. Democrats are also pushing extreme late-term abortion. Allowing children to be ripped from their mother's womb right up until the moment of birth. What's that all about? So, in Virginia, the governor, he's got a little publicity lately. I like 'em. It keeps us out of the papers. I like 'em. I'd like to find a few more guys like this one. He almost moon walked. His wife stopped him, "Darling, darling, that would be inappropriate." I want to see somebody trying to imitate Michael Jackson in the moonwalk. This would not have been a good scene. His wife saved him. "Darling, this would be inappropriate." I think she was right. But the governor stated that he would even allow a newborn baby to come out into the world and wrap the baby and make the baby comfortable. And then talk to the mother and talk to the father and then execute the baby. Execute the baby. Incredible. Millions of innocent beautiful babies are counting on us to protect them, and we will. That is why last week I go I called on Congress, with your great congressman over there—thank you, fellas—to immediately pass legislation prohibiting extreme late-term abortion. And that certainly is extreme. Many people never even heard of it. I mean, have you ever even hear of anything like this? Crowd. No! The President. Democrats must also address the double standard on full display in Virginia. By the way, that state's going to go Republican pretty soon, I'm pretty sure —because the Democrat Party has never been more outside of the mainstream. They're becoming the party of socialism, late-term abortion, open borders, and crime. This weekend, some Democrats even proposed a measure that would force the release of thousands of criminal illegal aliens——including dangerous felons convicted of rape, sex trafficking, violent assault, and even murder, into our country. Can you believe this? Their proposal would put a hard cap on the number of illegal aliens that are brave ICE officers, we love our ICE officers——can detain and thus remove, forcing thousands of criminals to be set free into United States communities. I don't think so. Okay. I don't think so. And I want to thank our ICE offices. What they put up is incredible——and that includes Border Patrol and that includes law enforcement. Let's face it. Law enforcement, we love them. They keep us safe. In the last two years alone, ICE officers have made 200—listen to these numbers—266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of approximately 100,000 assaults, 40,000, 40, 40,000 larcenies, 30,000 sex crimes, 25,000 burglaries, 12,000 vehicle thefts, 11,000 robberies, 4,000 kidnappings, and 4,000 murders——murders, murders, killings, murders. Crowd. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! The President. We will. We will. If we cut detention space, we are cutting loose dangerous criminals into our country. Slashing ICE detention is the first step of many for the far left. I call them the radical left. We will never abolish ICE. They want to abolish ICE. We're never going to abolish ICE. So, let me say very clearly to those pushing this ridiculous and radical agenda, I will never sign a bill that forces the mass release of violent criminals into our country. And I will never abolish or in any way mistreat our great heroes from ICE, and Border Patrol, and law enforcement. Never. We will always stand with those brave men and women. We'll always be with them. We're going to take care of them just like they take care of us, remember that. And I have to tell you, as I was walking up to the stage, they said that progress is being made with this committee. Just so you know, we're building the wall anyway. They say that progress has been made, with this committee. Just now. Just now. I said, "Wait a minute. I got to take care of my people from Texas. I got to go. I don't even want to hear about it." I don't wanna hear about it. So, I don't know what they mean, "Progress is being made. Significant". Now, what did happen, is the Democrats were being hit really hard on the concept of releasing criminals into our society, that has not been playing well. So maybe progress is being made, maybe not. But I had a choice, I could have stayed out there and listened or I could have come out to the people of El Paso in Texas. I chose you. I chose you. Crowd. We chose you! We chose you! We chose you! We chose you! The President. So—so we probably have some good news. But who knows? Who knows? We'll—we're—we're setting the stage, folks. You know what it's called, right? It's called we're setting the stage. We're setting the table. We're doing whatever we have to do. The wall's being built, it'll continue. It's going at a rapid pace. The Rio Grande. It's happening, go check it out. We proudly welcome those who come lawfully, and support our values in the United States, and that want to strengthen our society and help us with all of the companies moving into the United States, moving back, they left us now, they're moving back, many of them, in some cases, maybe all of them, but they all want to come back because the United States is where the action is, very simple. Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. It's where the action is. And it is—we're most proud of the fact, you look at the car companies, they're moving back. They're going into Michigan. They're going into Pennsylvania. They're going back to Ohio. So many companies are coming back. And by the way, that's why I want people to come into our country. But they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit. Through merit. So, they can help us build our country. Make America Great Again, pretty soon we're going to be saying, Keep America Great. Keep America Great. Pretty soon. Pretty soon, congressman. Keep America Great. We'll have to switch over. Tell me. Tell me, the campaign's sort of started 'cause you have these people that nobody ever heard of, they're all running for office. I said, "Who is that?" "Well, that person was a mayor of a city that was defeated." Well, how about Beto, Beto was defeated too, right? But he suffered a great defeat. Watch what the news does tomorrow, though, they won't mention the disparity. They won't mention the disparity tomorrow. They'll say, "Beto O'Rourke." That's his last name, right, O'Rourke? Beto O'Rourke had a wonderful rally of about 15 people. No, when they get honest, when the media starts becoming honest, and maybe they will. Because we've done something that's never been done before, we have suffered a totally dishonest media and we've won. And it's driving them crazy. It's driving them craaazy. It's driving them crazy but look at them, they still come. I've never seen anything But illegal immigration hurts all Americans, including millions of legal immigrants, by driving down wages, draining public resources, and claiming countless innocent lives. You see what's going on, folks. You know what's going on. They give you all of these phony stats. They say, "Oh, it's the same. It's the same." It's not the same. It's a bad situation going on, and we've stopped it. We are taking out thousands and thousands of people from MS-13. We're bringing them the hell out of our country, thousands. But if we had proper border security, including a very powerful wall, we wouldn't have to work so hard. And it would be a lot safer and a lot better. My Administration is committed to ending illegal immigration, while modernizing our legal immigration system, which has been in terrible shape for many, many decades, to prioritize the admission of those who can support themselves for them financially and contribute to our economy, people that come in on merit, merit, merit. Instead of random lotteries and chain migration. Chain migration, that's another beauty. We want a merit-based system for entry. This will improve living conditions for all Americans living here today, both immigrant and U.S.-born. Everybody's going to be happy. And we need the people to take care of these companies that are moving. Our unemployment rate, real unemployment, 3.6, 3.7——and going down. Had a little blip because of a thing called the shutdown. But remember this, it went up to 4.0. I said, "Boy, that's—" Do you know how low 4.0 is? Do you know anybody else, any other president that would have said, "Please give me 4.0, please?" We had a little blip, it went up from 3.7 to 4.0, just quickly. But you know what? If we didn't do that shutdown, we would not have been able to show this country, these politicians, the world, what the hell is happening with the border. That was a very important thing we did. Very important, yeah. And the fact is, illegal immigration is a heartbreaking human tragedy. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the very long and dangerous journey north up to our country. Sex traffickers, these are the worst human beings on earth, exploit our porous border to sell young girls and women into modern day slavery. You wouldn't even know that nobody knows that. And by the way, do you think they come in through the ports of entry? Crowd. NO!!! The President. I listen to the Democrats, let me be nice, just say the Democrats, I won't be specific. And they say, "Oh, everything comes through the port." They don't do that. They drive out where there's no barrier, no wall, they make a left. Congratulations, you're in the United States. That's all. If you have three women tied up in the backseat of a car, you're not going through, folks, a port of entry where they do look in the backseat, at least, right? Drugs pouring through the border kills tens of thousands of innocent Americans a year, including heroin, meth, cocaine, fentanyl, so many others. They come through the Southern border. We have a drug problem over the last 6, 7, 10 years like we have never had before. We can have such a big cut in the numbers, in the percentages, if we get the wall built—if we have a strong wall with other things. But we need the wall, and it has to be built, and we want to build it fast. The number of illegal immigrants crossing our borders is so large that we've nowhere to hold them. We have to build—they want buildings they want jails. They want, these people, how about the word caravan? Caravan. I think that was one of mine, but it looked like a caravan. Where you have thousands and thousands of people coming from Guatemala, from Honduras, and El Salvador, and they march up through Mexico. And by the way, if we didn't have walls in those areas, in some cases that we put up. In many cases where we reinforced. In many cases where our great military helped us with barbed wire. You would have people pouring in. They don't pour in. The problem is our laws are so bad that there's no way we can quickly remove them. Other countries say, "Get out of here." We have to bring them through a court system. We sign their names. They touch our land. We sign 'em up. We explain to 'em, "Please come back in six years for court." And only the dumbest people show back up. Nobody ever shows up. Nobody comes back in, like 2 percent. They go into our country. The good news is we have great law enforcement and many of these people, we know where they are, and we're going to get 'em the hell out. But we have to change our laws. So right now we have a backlog. You won't even believe this. Other countries don't do this. Somebody walks into our country, we bring them to court, we have now a legal—we need Perry Mason——we have a legal case. Nobody else does that. Other countries say, "Get out. Can't come in. You're not a citizen of whatever country." We bring 'em in. So, listen to this, right now we have almost 900,000 cases, 900,000. How many judges are going to take care of —we're going to have to hire tens of thousands of judges to do that. 900,000 cases. How stupid is this? This was a system put in place by really dumb people or people that did not have the best interests of our country at heart. And there's no place better to talk about border security, whether they like it or not, because I've been hearing a lot of things," Oh, the wall didn't make that much of a difference." You know where it made a big difference? Right here in El Paso. And I've been watching where they've been trying to say, "Oh, the wall didn't make that much—" Well you take a look at what they did with their past crimes, and how they made them from very serious to much lesser. You take a look at what the real system is. I spoke to people that have been here a long time. They said, "When that wall went up, it's a whole different ball game." Is that a correct statement? Whole different ball game. I'll give you another example. And I don't care whether a mayor is a Republican or a Democrat, they're full of crap when they say it hasn't made a big difference. I heard the same thing from the fake news. They said, "Oh, crime actually stayed the same." Didn't stay the same. Went way down and look at what they did to their past crimes and look at how they recorded those past crimes. Went way, way down. These people, you know, you'd think did want to get to the bottom of a problem and solve a problem. Not try and pull the wool over everybody's eyes. So, for those few people that are out there on television saying, "Oh, it didn't make too much of a difference," it made a tremendous— people from El Paso. Am I right? It's fake news. It's fake. I'm telling you, just fake news. And you know what? You wouldn't even have to know you can say that automatically without even knowing it. It's obvious, it's common sense. Just a few thousand feet, as an example, from where we stand right now on the other side of the border, it's one of the most dangerous cities in the world, Juarez, Mexico. Well, the people at Juarez agree. Yet, thanks to a powerful border wall in El Paso, Texas, it's one of America's safest cities now. Now, listen to the this... .So. You're talking a few feet away, right, a few feet, got a wall, it's a few feet away. Last year, Juarez had 1,200 murders. El Paso, right next door, a few feet away, had 23 murders. That's not good either. But 23 compared to 1,200. Walls work. Actually, there's nothing like 'em for what we're talking about. We want to stop drugs. We want to stop traffickers. We want to stop criminals from coming in. Walls save lives. Walls save tremendous numbers of lives. The biggest proponents of open borders are rich liberals and wealthy donors. These are hypocrites who oppose security for you while living their entire lives—I do it too, to be honest with you. I'm guilty. I'm guilty. I also live behind walls, okay. They live behind walls and gates. And they have guards all over the place. Me too, because I want to be safe and I want to make America safe, if you don't mind. Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. So, security should not belong only to the rich and to the powerful. Safety is the birthright of every American, which is why we must finish the wall. It's happening. Because walls are not immoral, as it was said. Human trafficking is immoral. Crowd. YES! The President. Drug peddling is immoral. Crowd. YES! The President. Child smuggling is immoral. Crowd. YES! The President. Sanctuary Cities that get Americans killed, they're immoral. Crowd. YES! The President. Open borders are dangerous and immoral. Crowd. YES! The President. My administration has put forward a compromise that really is a compromise, and I hate even compromise on things like this. But it's showing common sense, it's compassionate, and it's going to solve our problem and the cost is a fraction. When you look at the drugs that are pouring across from Mexico, if it stopped a small percentage, and it won't, it'll stop a large percentage, it would pay for itself in a matter of weeks. That's the kind of numbers you're talking about, a matter of weeks. And by the way, I—I hate to say this, because we have a very good relationship. But Mexico had the highest number of killings that they've ever had, almost 40,000 people were murdered in Mexico. Mexico is not too far away, and we need to take care of our people and we're going to do that and it's happening and it's happening a lot faster than anybody thought. And I love that sign. Thank you. What we're proposing includes humanitarian assistance, drug detection at our ports, and everywhere else, closing legal loopholes, which is a big problem, and plans for a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier or wall, let's call it a wall, it's better. This wall will be built in the areas identified by border agents as having the greatest need while safely directing people and commerce to our many lawful ports of entry, which we're beefing up in every way, structurally, we're beefing up the ports of entry and mechanically. We have equipment now that can spot drugs. It's incredible stuff. It's expensive. It's incredible. By the way, there is nothing better than a good old-fashioned German Shepherd. It's hard to believe, right. It's true you know, I—I was with the people and they're showing me this incredible computerized stuff and where it goes. I said "Could I—" Because Secret Service took me out to the place and they were showing me these German Shepherds, they're unbelievable. They'll run past all these empty boxes and one of the boxes has drugs in it, deep down in a box. And they come to a screeching halt barking at it every time. So, I asked the people that sell the machinery, at a lot of money, I said, "Let me ask you a question. This stuff is incredible. I'm really impressed. How does it compare to a German Shepherd?" The guy looks at and says, "Sir, honestly, it's not as good." Can you believe it? A German Shepard. Certain types of dogs, pretty good. You do love your dogs, don't you? I wouldn't mind having one, honestly, but I don't have any time, I don't have... How would I look walking a dog on the White House lawn, would that be Right, sort of not for—I don't know, it doesn't—I don't feel good. It feels a little phony-phony to me. A lot of people say, "Oh, you should get a dog." "Why?" "It's good politically." I said, "Look, that's not the relationship I have with my people. We want—" The President. Yeah, Obama had a dog, you're right. Both parties should come together to finally create a safe and lawful system of immigration. The American people have waited long enough. We must secure the border, pass Kate's Law. End Catch and Release, shutdown Sanctuary Cities—you know, we need Democrat votes to do that. Deport criminal aliens and keep the coyotes and traffickers and drug dealers the hell out of our country, please. And the Democrats also need to confirm the more than 300 highly qualified nominees who are sitting in the Senate waiting for confirmation, people that have given up their lives to work in the Trump administration and the Democrats aren't approving them. It's a record. It's total obstruction. It's a record of the history of our country there has never been... Some people left the job a year and a half ago, two years ago, to become an ambassador or to work at one of our many great agencies, and we can't get Schumer and his friends to approve them. It's total obstruction. There's never been anything like it. Very, very unfair. Very unfair to these people. In many cases, seriously, they've left jobs, and they're waiting and waiting and waiting. They're slow walking every single one of them. It's a disgrace. As we fight to protect our borders, we must also protect our newfound prosperity. My Administration has taken the toughest ever action to crack down on years of China's abuse, and its trade practices have been very unfair. And I have a lot of respect for President Xi, but he's representing China and I'm representing the United States. We're also replacing one of the worst deals ever made, probably the worst trade deal ever done, although I happen to think that the WTO is not so good either. We're replacing NAFTA with a brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement that everybody is loving. Gotta get Congress to approve it. We've got to get Congress to approve it. We'll get it, I think done. I mean, there's such obstruction in Congress, you know, they won't even do things that are good for our country now. They would rather have Trump have a loss than get something that's so good for our country. Our farmers are happy, everybody's happy. And it's going to be jobs. You know, what it does? It stops companies from moving out. It makes it very hard economically for companies to say, "Hey, thanks a lot. We're firing everybody, we're moving to Mexico." Makes it very, very hard. You know, that's been a bone of contention for me for many years. I've seen 25 percent and more of our automobile business move to Mexico. And it's not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore. Unless they want to pay nice big fat tariffs to send their cars back into this country. We've achieved—and by the way, tariffs have had an incredible effect. Just ask the folks in China, "How are we doing with tariffs?" You ask. And you ask, "How are we doing in our negotiations?" The fact is, and I say it openly, either they treat us fairly or they have to pay for the privilege of coming in and taking our wealth and taking our jobs. It's very simple. It's very, very simple. And if you look back at our country, when we were very rich, when we had no debt, when we had no problems economically, you take back—you take a look, 1888, the Great Tariff Debate, you know the debate was about? Our country had so much money they had to debate what the hell to do with all the money because tariffs were bringing in a fortune into the United States. So, at a minimum, countries in negotiating with us very seriously because of the fact that they don't want to have to pay to come in and take advantage of our country, that's at a minimum. Check it out, 1888. Have the press check it out. They'll say, "Donald Trump said 1888." We've achieved the largest decline in drug prices in 46 years, prescription drugs. And I'm asking Congress to work with me to make prescription drugs affordable for every American family. We just got the largest decrease in drug prices, think of that, and it's not easy, it's not easy. Because we have middlemen that take care of a lot of people for a lot of years, these middlemen. And the drug companies, but even worse, the middleman. And we're cutting the middleman out. They're not going to like me very much. They made a lot of money. But think of that. The better—the first time in 46 years. And now we're going to phase three, we did one statutorily, we did two statutorily, now we go to phase three. We're getting your drug prices down. We're embarking on bold initiatives to defeat AIDS. Who knew that? We have medicines now that work wonders on AIDS. We're looking to be AIDS-free in not many years as a country and maybe help, also, the world, the world. So we want to defeat AIDS, and we want to defeat childhood cancer. We've made tremendous strides. Tremendous strides. In the Middle East, our brave warriors have liberated virtually 100 percent of ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Now, you don't hear that from these people. Now, we've taken back—soon it'll be announced soon, maybe over the next week, maybe less, but it'll be announced very soon—we'll have 100 percent. When I took over this country, it was a mess. And if I wouldn't have been elected—you know, I have so many people, I was just walking up, and every time it happens, "Sir, thank you. Thank you very much." This guy, he's—he's like a monster. No, no, it's true. These people. This guy is like a monster. He's like this monster football—a big, strong guy. He says to me, he said Thank you very much. I don't know what they're saying, but that's okay. No, he's this big, strong guy and he's crying. And he said, "Mr. P—" I'm walking up, and he said, and it happens all the time, "Thank you very much, Mr. President." I said, "For what?" He said, "You've saved our country. Our country was going in the wrong direction. You've saved our country. Thank you." I've had so many people say that. So many people. You know what the truth is though? I didn't save our country. We're now heading in the right direction. It's very tough because we have so many things were fighting, including these people . But so many people that we're fighting, so many people that are either foolish or ill-intentioned. But you know, I didn't save our county. You know saved who our country? You saved our country. You saved our country. God. Because there's never—nothing like this has ever happened before. And you know what? The world is watching and when prime ministers, and when presidents, and kings and queens, they talk to me they say, "Congratulations on what's happened with your economy, Mr. President, it's incredible." They're emulating what we're doing. They can't believe it. So, we continue to decimate the remnants, because they're always going to be remnants, we can take the area the land, we'll soon have 100 percent, but they're always remnants, they get out, they wrap themselves in bombs. They're crazy. They're lunatics. But you're always going to have that. But we want to bring, now—got a 100 percent. It was so bad when I took over. It was going the opposite direction. Syria, we want to bring our troops back home. It's time. It's time. It's time. And thanks to the extraordinary service of our military in Afghanistan—19 years we're in Afghanistan —we may now be able to seek a political resolution that, frankly, they've wanted to talk about for a long time. We've hit 'em very hard, but it's been 19 years. Think of that, 19 years. We spend more on military in Afghanistan, $50 billion a year, than most countries spend on their entire country, healthcare, education, everything. We spend more than they do. It's time to start thinking smart for our country. What we want to build our country. We want to spend money in our country. We want to build our roads, and highways, and bridges, and dams. And last month the United States recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela and condemned the socialist brutality of the Maduro regime. Everywhere socialism has been, everywhere it's been implemented, it's produced poverty, misery, repression, and despair. You take a look no matter where. Yet, there are those trying to implement socialism right here in the United States. So, I, again, say to you——And I say it for the world to hear, America will never be a Socialist country, never, never. Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA! The President. We're born free. We will live free, and we will die free. We will always be free. Each of us here tonight is united by the same timeless values. We believe in the American Constitution and our great rule of law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the center of the American way. We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our incredible history, and always respect our great American flag. We believe that the first duty of government is to be loyal to its citizens. And we live by the words of our national motto that we are going to keep—we'll never change this—"In God We Trust." These are the beliefs, traditions, and principles that bind us together as citizens, as neighbors, as great patriots. These are the values that unite people all across the great State of Texas. From Houston to Austin, from Dallas to El Paso , from the Red River to the Rio Grande, the Lone Star State embodies the spirit of independence like maybe no other place anywhere in the world. And you have always embraced the cause of American freedom like no one else. This is the state where William Travis, James Bowie, and Davy Crockett made their last stand at the Alamo. This is the state where a small band of patriots at the Battle of Gonzalez, armed with a single cannon, stared down a foreign, powerful army and declared, "Come and take it. Come and take it. Come on, take it." And Texas is the state where generations of farmers, ranchers, oil workers, and pioneers help build up the most extraordinary nation in all of human history. That's what we are. We were losing track. We didn't lose track anymore, we're just straight on that track. Now, just like generations of Texas patriots who came before, you are going to make your stand. That's what we've done, we've made our stand and we've made it together. This is a big group of millions and millions of people that have come together like never before in our history. This has never happened before. And we've come for safety, for sovereignty, and for the sacred rights given to us by the hand of Almighty God. We are one united movement, one united people, and one United States of America. And together, with the proud and incredible and great people of the State of Texas, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Texas. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. Do we love Nashville, do we love Tennessee. We love Tennessee. Thank you. What a crowd. What a crowd. I want to thank you. I want to thank Trace Adkins; he was incredible. And, you know, Trace won The Apprentice. Trace is a winner. And I want to thank you very much, Trace. That was fantastic. I'm thrilled to be here in the great state of Tennessee, and that's what it is; it is a great state. It's the heart of American music, and I mean incredible music. I love country music and culture, joined by thousands of hardworking American patriots. So joining us this evening are many of your wonderful Tennessee Republican leaders. Boy, this feels just like before our election. This is a big crowd of people, a lot of people, a lot of people, with bad weather and bad everything. And they're still coming in. We love you. We love you. Thank you. And we're producing for you. We're really producing. You know, people are saying that we made certain promises and I'm the only politician—can you imagine, the word "politician"—I never thought that was going to happen, I don't even like it—but I'm the only politician that produced more than I said I was going to produce, and we're only 1 1/2 years in. But, before we begin, we have some great people. State Republican Party chairman who's done an incredible job, Scott Golden. Scott? And Lieutenant Governor Randy McNally. Randy, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Randy. Thank you, Scott. From your House delegation we have David Kustoff. Where's David? David? Thank you, David. David Kustoff. Scott DesJarlais, the most beautiful name in politics. Thank you. Diane Black? Diane? Where's Diane? She's in a big race. Good luck, Diane. And Jimmy Duncan, right, Jimmy. First time I met Jimmy Duncan, I was in Pennsylvania doing a speech with a good friend of his, Lou Barletta, who's now running for the Senate in the great State of Pennsylvania and I think he's going to do really well. He's an incredible guy. But they're good friends. So I was making a speech and Jimmy Duncan comes in. I didn't know Jimmy at the time. This is before the election. And Tennessee has early voting, right, very early. And this is like three weeks before the election. And he comes up and he goes, "You know, Mr. Trump"—see, then, it wasn't Mr. President; it was just Mr. Trump—and he goes, "You know, I've never seen anything like it, but I love the State of Tennessee. And those people were coming from the hills, from the valleys, from the mountains, they were coming from everywhere." He said, "I've never seen anything like it." Really early voting in Tennessee. He said, "All I can say is you're going to win Tennessee in a landslide," which we did. But he said, "If the rest of the country is like Tennessee," right, Jimmy, "If it's like Tennessee, you're going to win this election very easily." But we all kept hearing, "he can't get to 270." Remember, you need 270 Electoral College. "There is no way to 270." And they were right: 306. There is no way to 270. I went to Maine. I love Maine, but I went there four times, because I needed one, I had to find one because I believed the fake news. They were wrong. There they are right back there. They're fake. They are fake. Look how many of them. Look how many, oh, boy. That's a lot of people back there. That's a lot of people. Fake news. We're also very grateful to be joined by Senator Lamar Alexander. Lamar? And Senator Bob Corker. And, finally, the person we are all here tonight to support, the next United States senator from the great State of Tennessee, a very, very early supporter of ours and a really wonderful woman—she loves your state, she loves your country, she's going to win—Marsha Blackburn. Come up, Marsha, for a second. Marsha? MARSHA BLACKBURN: Thank you so much, Mr. President. We are absolutely thrilled that you are here and I'm glad all of you are here. Thank you for everything you've done to elect so many Republicans and thank you for everything that you are doing for President Donald Trump. I've got to tell you, he has had an amazing 18 months—a Supreme Court justice, 40 federal judges, repealing record number of regulations, tax cuts, decreasing illegal immigration, standing up to China and North Korea, defeating ISIS in Syria. Let me tell you, that is what you call getting the job done. And I'm going to tell you right now, Tennessee needs a Senator who is going to support President Donald Trump, and I am going to be there to stand with President Donald Trump and take your Tennessee values to Washington, D.C. to fight with him to get the job done. Thank you all so much. Thank you, Marsha. She is a great woman. She is a great woman. So we need Marsha in the Senate to continue the amazing progress and work that we've done over the last year and a half. There has never been an administration—and even some of our enemies are begrudgingly admitting this—that has done what we've done in the first year and a half. Think of it. We've created 3.3 million new jobs since Election Day. Now, if we would have said that before the election, that I'm going to create 3.3 million new jobs, we would never have survived the onslaught from the fake news. They would have not accepted it. They wouldn't have accepted it. They would have said, "There's no way you can do that." Unemployment is at its lowest level since the turn of the century. Now, the actual number is 19 years, but I said, "Let's see, 19 years—that brings us into the last century." I love the sound of "the turn of the century," right? So I said, "Let's not use 19; let's say the turn of the century." But that's a long time. African-American unemployment and Hispanic-American unemployment are at their lowest levels in history—in history. Unemployment among women is at its lowest level in almost 20 years. And wages, for the first time in many, many years, are finally going up. Wages are going up. I used to talk about it on the campaign trail. People were making less money working two and three jobs than they were making 20 years ago. Well, now, wage—it's going up, folks. What can I say? They're just going up. Wages going up, and they're going up fast. The forgotten men and women of our country are no longer forgotten. They are forgotten no more, no more. We're reasserting American strength and confidence and talent. We have tremendous talent in this country, tremendous talent in this room, a big room, this stadium, this arena. We have tremendous talent, and our talent and our strength is being respected again. Prosperity is booming. Optimism is surging and America is winning. We're winning. We truly are making America great again. Look at all those hats. But, most importantly, our country is respected again all over the world. We're not making apologies. We're not making excuses. We're respected again as a country. No more apologies. But, to keep this momentum going, to continue this incredible progress, to keep on winning, you have to vote Republican in November. You see what's happening with the Democrats. So Marsha's very liberal Democrat opponent, Phil Bredesen—I've never heard of this guy. Who is he? Who is he? He's an absolute, total tool of Chuck, of Chuck Schumer. He's a tool of Chuck Schumer and, of course, the MS-13 lover, Nancy Pelosi. She loves MS-13. Can you imagine? Remember? I said they're animals, and she said, "How dare you say that? How dare you say that?" Have you seen what they've done? Have you seen what they are doing to us? And we're taking them out of our country by the thousands—out, out--by the thousands. So Philbert was recruited by Schumer to run for the Senate. He had to get Pelosi's approval—can you believe this? And, if Bredesen were ever to get elected, he'd do whatever Chuck and Nancy—remember the term, "Chuck-and-Nancy." They don't want the wall. They want open borders. They're more interested in taking care of criminals than they are in taking care of you. Bredesen donated a lot of money to the campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton—Crooked Hillary. So how do you like the fact they had people infiltrating our campaign? Can you imagine? Can you imagine? Can you imagine people infiltrating our campaign? Is there anybody in this big, beautiful arena right now that's infiltrating our campaign? Would you please raise your hand? That would take courage. Now, look, you take a look at what's going on. Never in the history of our country has something taken place like took place during this election. In all fairness, I'm no fan of Crazy Bernie Sanders. I'm no fan. But I want to tell you, he got screwed. He did. He did. Crazy Bernie—he still doesn't know what happened. No, he doesn't know. I saw him on television. I don't know what happened. Me, too. I thought he was winning. But it helped me, because we were very, very cautious and we worked hard—many, many speeches a day. That last month of campaigning—and some of the polls got it right. But I'll tell you what, I'd see the crowds, crowds like this. I'd go one to another to another all over the country. She'd go there. The only way she filled up the arena was to get Jay-Z. And his language was so filthy that it made me, like, the most clean-cut human being on earth. He'd stand up there before those crowds—and, by the way, without any musical instruments, I had much bigger crowds than he was drawing—but he'd stand up before those crowds and he'd use the F-word and Hillary would sit back and—"I'm in trouble. I'm in trouble. Please, don't have him use that kind of language anymore." And then he'd finish and everybody would leave and she'd be standing up making a speech to 400 people. But Phil Bredesen supported her. And he supported her ideas. He opposes the border wall. We need a wall. We're going to get the wall. We've already started doing it. So we've already started. We got $1.6 billion in the last approval. Now, remember this: We had to take care of our military folks, OK? We had to take care. I got $700 billion for our military and next year I got $716 billion. And our enemies look at us much differently now than they looked at us two years ago. We also, by the way—very important to all of us—we got $6 billion—that's "B" billion—$700 "B" billion, but we got $6 billion for opioid and getting rid of that scourge that's taking over our country. And the numbers are way down. We're getting the word out—bad. Bad stuff. You go to the hospital, you have a broken arm; you come out, you're a drug addict with this crap. It's way down. We're doing a good job with it. But we got $6 billion to help us with opioid. So, if you want strong borders—and again, we started that wall. We have $1.6 billion for the wall. We've started the wall. And, in San Diego, they came to us—they wanted the wall in California. And you heard the story. I said, "Don't give it to them, because we lose a lot of energy." They wanted it so badly. They got tired of illegal immigrants walking across their front lawn. Can you understand that? Isn't that terrible that they got tired? Why shouldn't they have people walking through their living room? Why? So they wanted the wall. So I said, "No, let's wait." And they said, "Go ahead and build it, we got a good price." So we started to build it. Then I had second thoughts because of the governor of California, who loves sanctuary cities and other things. So he didn't want the wall. But they were putting so much pressure, so I decided to do it. Then, in the middle of doing it—it's beautiful. It's big. Nobody is crossing it very easily. Not one of those that you can just scoot to the top. This is a real wall. So what happened is, in the middle, like, I sort of had second thoughts. You ever have second thoughts about something? I said, "You know, let's stop building the wall, because we get more pressure put on this crazy governor where the taxes are high and the crime is high." Other than that, he's doing a fantastic job, OK? In California—I have property in California that I don't care about anymore. When you do this job, there's only one thing that matters. That's getting it done properly. It doesn't matter—getting it done. Who cares? Who cares if you have property? Big deal. So I said, "Let's stop building the wall." I said, "How much would it cost?" Because I know too much about contractors. I think half the room is contractors. Look at these people. I can tell a contractor. I can smell a contractor, believe it or not. There are a lot of contractors in this room. So I said, "Find out how much it would cost to stop." And one of the generals said, "Sir, it wouldn't cost anything to stop." I said, "Really? Find out. When he came to me, he said, "It's $7 million to stop." I'd said, "All right, keep building it, OK? I'm not going to stop it for that, right? We got to get it done. So we're doing the wall. We started the wall. But we want to do—we need about 700 miles of wall. It's 2,000 miles. We need about 700 miles of wall. We're getting it. We have a lot of natural barriers that are better than any wall you could build. But we're getting it. And, for those people—remember I used to say, "And who's going to pay for the wall?" And these guys all think, "Wow, we finally have them." Because Mexico said they're not going to pay for the wall. What does that mean? What does that mean? We're renegotiating NAFTA. Remember what I said. We are having—we are having—you remember I said to Tennessee, I said to everyone—we have such a bad deal with Mexico. We have such a bad deal with Canada. We lose with Mexico over $100 billion a year with this crazy NAFTA deal. One—think of it. It's impossible. We lose $100 billion a year, and that doesn't include the billions of dollars of drugs that flow into our country. That's not included. That's probably another $100 billion, probably more than that. And it's really destroying our youth. We're going to stop it and we have been stopping it. And immigration is down much, but we need border wall. We need—we got to have a change in our laws. Our laws are the worst laws of any country anywhere in the world—catch and release. Did you ever hear? You catch, you take their name and you release. Great. Wonderful. Then they are supposed to show up to a court. There's only one problem: They never show up. So we're working on it. We're having a real problem. The Democrats want to use it as a campaign issue. And I keep saying, "I hope they do." The fact is the Democrats are lousy politicians. They are lousy on policy. I happen to think them allowing open borders, which we don't allow anyway—but they make it very difficult—but them allowing open borders—that's a good issue for us, not to them. I really—but the one thing they do—the one thing they do is they stick together. It's always like 48, 49. Nobody leaves in the Senate. They stick together. They always vote, like, 100 percent. OK? So we need more Republicans. We're going to get them. We're going to get the wall done anyway. Mexico, I don't want to cause a problem. I don't want to cause it. But, in the end—in the end, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. I'm just telling you. I'm just telling you. All right. I don't want to cause any problem. But in the end Mexico is paying for the wall. They make all of this money and they do absolutely nothing to stop people from going through Mexico from Honduras and all these other countries—the caravan, all of this stuff—they do nothing to help us. Nothing. They're going to pay for the wall and they're going to enjoy it. OK? They're going to enjoy it. They do nothing for us. So, if you want strong voters, and if you want—not only that; we have to do something with the lottery. We have to do something with chain migration. We have a guy in New York a year ago—he ran over and killed eight people, right? Eight people, and nobody ever talks about the people who were injured. Do you ever notice? They say, "eight people who died," well, about 12 are just horribly injured. They lose an arm. They lose a leg. These are people that are running alongside of the Hudson River, which I know so well. And they are running. And this maniac takes his car, he's driving fast, he goes, he knocks off as many people as he can. Eight people killed, many people badly injured—missing a leg, missing an arm. Can you imagine? These are people different from me in the sense that they want to run. I don't want to run. They want to run. And they go and they work hard. And they want to look good. And they come home because of this maniac and others like them. Look at what's going on all over the world. Look at what's going on—look at what's happening to Europe. So they go. And they take this man, right? And he got here and he's got 22 people that came in—his mother, his father, his grandmother, his uncle, his brother, his sister. He got—22 people come in for this one guy. That's called chain migration—22 people. And then, of course, you have the wonderful lottery system that was started by Chuck Schumer, or—sometimes referred to as "Crying Chuck Schumer," right? I know him for so many years. I know him from New York so long. Crying Chuck—remember, he was crying. He was so sad. He got up, he was crying. He was working those tears. He was trying so hard. He was trying so hard that, actually, they weren't tears. It was sweat. He was sweating. So Crying Chuck wanted to have a lottery system. Think of it, a lottery. You pick people. Now, let me ask you. So these countries that are sending people in—do you think they are sending us their finest? Do you think they are sending us—so we got the lottery. So they put names, and we pick the names, and they come in, and then we wonder why we have problems. We're not going to be a stupid country anymore. We've stopped it. We're not going to be. And you can say what you want, but I think border security and security in general is a great issue for the Republican Party. I think it's a great issue. Not a bad issue. So, if you want the strong voters, if you want crime to stop—and, by the way, as a country, we have it way down. But then you take a look at a place like Chicago. What the hell is that mayor doing? What is he doing? But we have—crime is down in the country. But we need Republicans, and we need to get out and vote for Marsha. If you want your communities to be safe, if you want your schools to be safe, if you want your country to be safe, then you must go out and get the Democrats the hell out of office, because there's no common sense. And we're going to defend our borders, and we're going to fight hard on crime. We're not going to let what's happened over the last long period of time—been going on for a long time. We have borders down 40 percent, and it's tough because our economy is doing so well. More people try and get in, so it makes it even tougher. But the other thing is we are going to protect your Second Amendment. You won't have a Second Amendment if the Democrats take over. You won't have a Second Amendment. You won't have a Second Amendment. So, last week, I visited a place where—I essentially grew up right next to it—to discuss the menace of MS-13. This vicious gang has transformed once peaceful, beautiful communities that I know so well—I know them all—into bloodstained killing fields, savagely murdering, raping and mutilating their victims. And they don't even want to do it with a gun. They talk about gun control. They don't want to do it with a gun. They want to do it with knives. They want to cut people up into little pieces because it's more painful. And then I have to listen to Pelosi and these people saying, "We have to respect them. They are human beings." They are not human beings. They're not human beings. And this is why we call the bloodthirsty MS-13 gang members exactly the name that I used last week. What was the name? CROWD: Animals. Animals. MS-13 takes advantage of glaring loopholes in our immigration laws to infiltrate our country. That's what they do. Think of it. We're bringing them out by the thousands, but they come in. We're bringing them out by the thousands. In Long Island, we have guys in border patrol. And we have guys in ICE—and women, fantastic women and brave and tough and strong—but we have the people in ICE. They go around and grab MS-13. And the beauty is, they are much tougher than these gang members. And they see these people. And they say, "Man," and they throw them into the paddy wagons. And the towns—this is Long Island, where I grew up. You have the same kind of communities. But, for some reason, so many in Long Island—it's like they've been liberated, like from a war. It's like the enemy has been taken out and the people are dancing and they're waving and they are looking out their windows and they are waving to the ICE people. Those people are incredible, brave, tough people. They've been liberated. Terrible. If you would have told me 30 years ago, 20 years ago, that could happen to Long Island, I would have said, "No way." But that's what happened. But think of it. It's like these towns have been liberated. Yet, in the face of MS-13 and its threat, Washington, Democrats voted against legislation to remove these criminal aliens. They voted against Kate's Law. And they voted in favor of sanctuary cities that protect criminals. And they voted in favor catch and release. OK? So Democrats have opposed every common-sense measure necessary to stop this horrendous scourge of crime, to dismantle MS-13 and to stop illegal immigration. That's why we have to go in November. You have to work with Marsha. We have to get the votes. We need the votes. They stick together. They'll always vote. Phil—whatever the hell his name is—this guy will 100 percent vote against us every single time. I have Democrats come up to me. "I love you, President. I love the job. I'm with you, President." Some of these states, I won by 44 points. And they're afraid that, if I go there, which I will—so they're telling me all sorts. They're actually saying good things. Democrats running for office—many of them are saying great things about me. In fact, I think they're Republicans. But here is the problem: They're not going to vote for us. No matter what they say, doesn't matter. The only thing that matters—they don't have to say anything. The only thing that matters is will they raise their hand. They will never raise their hand, because I told you, they are bad at everything, but they are good at sticking together. They are good at sticking—I give them respect for that. They are good at sticking together. It's the only thing they are good at. We support the rule of law and we support the heroes of law enforcement. Thank you. And we defend our Constitution. And we have confirmed—we've gotten now through confirmation a record number of judges who will interpret the Constitution as written, as written. We have pride in our history. And we have respect for our great American flag. We put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance. Put our hands on our hearts. And we always proudly stand for our national anthem. Thank you. What's that all about? Guided by these shared values, we've already accomplished more than anyone ever dreamed possible. A year and a half—that's all it is. We have not let you down. I'll never let you down, never. We passed the largest tax cuts and reform in American history. Larger than Ronald Reagan, many years ago. And you know? When I got involved, I said, "You got to help me with this, because why have you never been able to pass tax cuts?" You might have heard the story. And they said to me, "Sir, I don't know. We just can't pass them." I said, "Can I see a few of these bills over the years?" I looked at one from 20 years ago, 10 years ago, 30 years ago. But it doesn't say "Tax cut." It says "the Tax Reform Act of 1994," tax reform. It says things—what does "reform" mean? It might mean you pay more taxes. It didn't say "cuts." So I meet with the politicians, and they've been doing it much longer than me. Remember that I've only been doing it for a couple of years, right? But we have common sense. I said, "Wait a minute. When you pass the tax reform act of whatever year, nobody knows it's tax cuts." "Well, I think they do." Great, let's give everybody an education. We're going to give 350 million people an education. You got to call it the Tax Cut Act. The Tax Cut Act. And then they said—good people—well-meaning; they want to pass it—really good people—Kevin Brady, a lot of great people, knowledgeable—they said, "Sir, what would you like to name it?" I said, "I'll tell you, and I'm being serious about it. I want it to be called the Tax Cut, Cut, Cut, Cut Plan. Four cuts." And we all agreed that was a little bit hokey, so we decided not to do that. But we call it the Tax Cut Act, OK? And it was—and I don't say easy. I don't say easy—and then, of course, repeal and replace Obamacare. But what—we had it done, folks. It was done, and then, early in the morning, somebody turned the hand in the wrong direction. That cost our country a lot. That was a very, very terrible thing that happened that night. That was a very terrible thing. That cost our country $1 trillion in entitlement saving that nobody would have known. It would have given us a good health care plan and that cost us a lot. And nobody knew that was going to happen, because we had it done. Repeal and replace. And the person that voted that way only talked repeal and replace. He campaigned on it. So I'll tell you this. I'll tell you this. To get that, we are coming up with great health care. Our secretary of labor is coming out with a plan in two weeks—association plan. Going to be great. Our secretary of health, Alex—we have Alex Acosta, you know that. I have my two Alexes. Both my Alexes are coming out with plans that are phenomenal plans, phenomenal plans, Alex Azar, Alex Acosta. And they'll be out over the next four weeks. It's going to cover a tremendous amount of territory. Plus, in the tax cuts, what did we get? The individual mandate is out the window. That was the most unpopular part of Obamacare. So unconstitutional. That was where you have the privilege of paying a lot of money so that you don't have to pay for health care because you're not going to get it, OK? So you pay not to have to pay for health care, in other words, you're not going to get health care. You pay for the privilege, they give it. You pay for the—every time I think of this, you pay for the privilege of not getting health care—great. That's a great one. I love that. That was an Obama special. Who would think of that? Who would think of it? So we got rid of the individual mandate. We also got ANWR in Alaska in the tax cut plan. Friend of mine called, they said, "You know, that's amazing, ANWR." He's in the oil business. Successful guy. He goes, "I can't believe it. They've been trying to get ANWR. That's a massive find." It's been for years and years they haven't been able to get it approved. And I wasn't pushing it too hard, to be honest with you, because I was more focused on the tax cuts. He called up, he goes, "Is it true that you're trying to get ANWR and you'll maybe get it?" I said, "Yes. Who cares?" "It's the biggest, like, the biggest find. It's like phenomenal." I said, "Why do you ask? He said, "Well, you know, every president"—Bush. Bush—$7 trillion in the Middle East—great, great, great investment. A lot of death, death and blood and money—horrible, Bush. Everybody tried to get—so he said, "People have been trying to get that approved since Ronald Reagan." I said, "What about Reagan?" He tried also. They failed. When I heard that, I said, "You got to get ANWR approved." And we got it approved as part of the—I never knew it was such a big deal. It's actually a big deal. And the people of Alaska, who are great—they're working on it right now. They're moving it along. Last week, we passed new landmark legislation to give choice to our great veterans. It's going through. We're going to have it. It's going to be incredible. We're going for choice. Haven't finished the process yet, but it's happening—choice. You know, before I knew too much about the V.A., I used to say, We're going to take care—these are our great people. They are, in many cases, in pretty rough shape. They'd have to wait for a doctor for three weeks, four weeks, for 16 days, for a week, sometimes for months. They go on to line with something that could be easily cured; three months later, they haven't seen a doctor and they're terminally ill. OK? And I said, "We have to help." And I didn't know too much about it. But I said, "You know what makes sense to me? They wait for the doctors, they can't get in. You know what makes sense to me? Let them go out to a private doctor who's looking for business, and let the government pay." Right? And I went to the so-called experts and they said, "Yes, we've been trying to do that for years." I said, "I see. So it's not like an odd idea." "No, we've been trying, but we can't get it passed. We're very close to getting it fully passed." Choice. Choice. We also did something else. For the V.A.—our veterans—we got the V.A. Accountability Act. Do you know what that is? Do you know what that is? Now, we all love the unions. We all love civil service. But the power that they have—you couldn't get it. For years and decades, they've tried to get accountability, so people would treat our vets badly. You had sadists. You had people that would—would be terrible to our vets, and you couldn't fire them. You had people that would steal, they'd rob. You'd catch them, you couldn't fire them. And I had what's called the V.A. Accountability Act. Nobody thought I could get it through—nobody—because of the unions. Hey, I understand—and because of civil service, which is very powerful. We got it through. I signed it a couple of months ago. Right? And now, when somebody steals or when some sicko hurts our great veterans, we look them in the eye and we say, "Jim, you're fired. Get out of here. Get out." And they're gone. They're gone. They're gone. V.A. Accountability Act—I'm proud of that one. Nobody talks about it. By the way, these guys don't talk about it. They never talked about it. They never talk. They don't even talk about it. Something good happened—they don't want it. And it's mostly good, I will tell you. They don't want to talk about it. This month, just like I promised during the campaign, the United States officially opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. Good. That's good. Here's just a quick story. I really understand now why it was never approved by everybody that ran for office—every president, both parties in running. They said, "We're going to open the embassy in Jerusalem. We're going to recognize Jerusalem as the capital. We're opening the"—OK, this was their campaign, the politicians. This is their campaign over and over. Many, many presidents. But not one—because you're fired, yes. They got fired. I guess you're right. They're not here. But not one did it. And I thought that was terrible, because you see them campaigning—it's one of their many points. But we're going to open the embassy in Jerusalem, over and over and over. Now it comes time—one of them wins. They never do it, right? They never did it. And now I know why. Because, two weeks out, when people sort of started to think that we're going to open up the embassy, I was called by every leader in the world. "Don't do it. Don't do it. We don't want it. Don't do it. Don't"—and I understood. The pressure not to open it was tremendous, and we did it, and we did the right thing. We did the right thing. And, after—I'll tell you a little business story, fast one. But, after it was approved, I told the generals—and John Bolton is here someplace. Where's John Bolton? Great John Bolton. They think he's so nasty and so tough that I have to hold him back, OK? It's pretty great. And he's doing a great job. You better get some rest, because we have pretty good negotiations coming up. He's here with his daughter, who lives, by the way, in Tennessee—so happy. So I say, "I want to build it. We just got it approved. It was a big deal. I want to build it." And they said, "Yes, sir." So I get this, you know, executive order—this big, beautiful piece of paper. It must have cost, like, a fortune. Like, even—look, for my speech, I haven't used it yet, but (inaudible). So beautiful. Leather—most expensive leather money can buy, you know. Thing probably cost $2,000. Look, it's got the seal. Remind me to take it when I leave. It's so beautiful. But I have this executive—and I'm getting ready to sign it. I signed "Donald." I say, "What is this, general? I'm signing so much stuff. What is this, general?" "Sir"—because they're—I love these generals. They're much better fighters of wars, believe me, than they are negotiators for money. "Sir, this is the new embassy in Israel. It's for your approval, sir. The cost will be $1 billion." I said, "Wait a minute. What? What?" $1 billion. I said, "$1 billion? How can it cost $1 billion? It's like a one-story building." "Sir, we estimate the cost to be $1 billion. We're going out to buy land. We're going to do this." Well, in the meantime, it won't open for 30 years, you know, they all say. So I called my head, my great diplomat, my representative, David Friedman, right? To Israel, from the United States. Our ambassador, David Friedman. I say, "Hey, David. David, I got a problem. I can't spend a billion dollars on building an embassy. I just can't—not that the country can't. I just can't do it up here, you know, mentally. I can't do it. It's like a one-story building. They want to go out and overpay for a piece of land that's in a bad location, like they did, by the way, in London before I got there. I said, "David, I can't do it." Now, David was a great lawyer, great businessman, very successful, one of the most successful lawyers. He said, "Let me look into it. He calls me back two days later, says, "Sir." "What?" "Sir, we can build the embassy for $150,000." Now you got to understand. Ok, that's a big difference. I said, "What are you talking about, $150,000? He said, "We can build the embassy, sir, for $150,000. We have the best piece of land that we already own. We have a building on that piece of land. It's set back, it's a very big piece. Many acres. It's in the best location. And what I want to do, sir, is take the corner of that big, beautiful building and carve it up, and we can build an embassy for $150,000." So you know what I told him? I got a little extravagant. I said, "David, make it for $400,000." OK. So think of it. So we opened up—and here's the other thing. "And, sir, we can have the embassy built in about three months." I said three months, as opposed to 20 years. So here's the deal. $1 billion, land we don't own, will take forever to get it open. It'll never open. And then, in addition to all of the people who will try and stop you—and that's a billion dollars as opposed to a better location for $400,000. I said, "Spend more, please. You know, sometimes something can cost so little, it's ridiculous, right? So we opened it. It is totally beautiful. The finest stones, the finest marbles, the best location. It's open. It opened in four months after we started building. We had the dedication ceremony. But that's government. By the way, I could tell you a hundred stories like that. These stories are crazy. So, instead of spending $1 billion and not having it for 20 years, we spent 400,000 bucks and it opened up in a few months. Is that good? Is that a good story? And I think it probably is better. Somebody said, "Well, it won't be. I said, "Yes, I think the big difference—it's probably better, OK?" So that was the story. But, in order to ensure the other big move—the Iranian regime never obtains nuclear weapons. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal three weeks ago. Instead of apologizing for America, which we always do, we are finally standing up for our great country. And that's why, in November, we will reverse a trend. When you win the presidency, for some reason, you always end up losing the House, losing the—it happens like 90 percent of time, makes absolutely no sense. But I think what happens is you get complacent. You work—all of you people in this room—some of you are friends of mine, some of you I recognize. But you worked so hard in Tennessee. They're working hard all over the country. And you win. And now you sit back and you relax. That's the worst thing that can happen because, all of a sudden, you have another election. And this election is a very important one. This is a really important election, so you have to get out. We need Marsha Blackburn to win. And it's going to be a very special time. So we'll deliver all of our citizens—we'll deliver all of our promises. Together, we will lift up our country. We'll lift up millions and millions of Americans from welfare to work, from dependence to independence and from poverty to prosperity. And that's what we're doing. That's what we're doing. Remember when I'd make a speech and I'd talk about African American—and I'd say, "Highest crime rate, bad education"—I go up like 10 points. And they're always voting—African Americans vote for Democrats for the most part. You know, vast majority. They've been doing it for over a hundred years. And I said, "Highest crime, bad education, bad this, bad that." And what did I say? "What the hell do you have to lose?" And, now, we have numbers coming out that are so fantastic... ... for Hispanic, for African American. Thank you. Right? Right? And I fulfilled—but we have just started. We have just started. Because we're going to build new airports. We've become like a third world country. You look at our airports. You go to places like Saudi Arabia and other places, or China—go to some of these countries, and you'll see things that you've never seen before. We used to be the leader. We're going to build new airports. We're going to build new highways. We're going to build new dams. We're going to build infrastructure. We just had approved recently—we just had approved—we're fixing up all of our airports. Billions of dollars just got approved, and I'm signing it shortly. We will build new strength into our country. We will breathe new hope into our communities. And we will do it all with these big, beautiful hands. Look at these hands. Because we've got more capability, we've got more grit, and we've got a thing called American pride, and nobody has it like us. Loyal citizens like you, the people of Tennessee, helped build this country. And, together, we are taking back our country. We're returning the power back to our great American patriots. This great state was forged through the sweat and courage of tough frontier men and strong frontier women who braved the elements and defied the dangers to carve out a home in the wilderness. Not easy. Generations of proud patriotic Tennessee pioneers—these are incredible people. Your relatives, who love their families, love their country, and love their God, made this beautiful state into their beloved home. This is the state of country music, of Nashville legends we love—we love those legends—and of Memphis blues. It's the state of Andrew Jackson, a great president and a great general, by the way. It's the state of Davy Crockett and Sergeant York. And, this November, this is the state where America's comeback will continue full speed ahead. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who have—what we have done—what we have done. We have beaten empires. We have tamed continents. We've triumphed over the worst evils in history. We have triumphed over evil like nobody's ever seen before. Our ancestors—they crossed the oceans. They blazed the trails. They climbed the mountains and created the modern world with their own two hands. We're the nation that built the Empire State Building in less than one year and the Golden Gate Bridge and the incredible Panama Canal, which we gave away—which we gave away—we won two world wars. We defeated communism and fascism. And we put a man on the face of the moon. And you see what's happening with NASA, see those rocket ships starting to go up again. A lot of jobs, a lot of great stuff happening with NASA. As long as we are proud of who we are and what we are fighting for, we will never, ever fail—never fail. I say it, and I say it all the time. We are so respected again. I can't even tell you the—really, the degree to which people respect our country again. It's amazing. It's amazing. With your help, with your voice and with your vote, we will win, win, win. We will achieve victory for our magnificent land, the land that we love, because we are Americans and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We will never give in. We will never give up. And we will never stop fighting for our country, for our flag, and for our great, beautiful freedom. We are one people. We are one family and one glorious nation under God. Without a question, without a doubt, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much. God bless you. We love you. Thank you. God bless you everybody. Well, thank you, Montana. What a place. What a place. And it's great to be here tonight with thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots. Thank you. And, outside, you probably know what's going on. There are thousands and thousands of people. And we've decided, from now on, we're going to put up screens and loud speakers so people can stay around. Because this happens all the time. I said to my people, "Why didn't you get a larger arena?" We can't, right? We can't. But those are great people outside and I apologize. But there are thousands of them and -- yeah. We really – we really love them. But you people know real estate better. You know real estate better. So it's pretty good stuff. And you're inside and I'm inside and we love each other and it's going to stay that way. So, we are thrilled to be joined by some great people. You just heard Steve Daines. He has been so helpful. He has been so helpful in Washington on the tax cuts and everything else. And I want to thank Steve and his family. They have been incredible for me in Washington. Thank you, Steve. I appreciate it. And Steve and I are running again. You know, 2020 he comes up, so we're running together, Steve. And I want to thank Greg Gianforte. He's a member of Congress who has been a hundred percent with us. Incredible success story. A lot of people don't know that but Greg is an incredible success and did a really good job and then he said he wants to give back. And Greg, you have been fantastic. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Montana Attorney General Tim Fox. Thank you, Tim. Secretary of State, Corey Stapleton. Thank you, Corey. Montana Republican Party Chairwoman Deborah Lamb. Superintendent of Public Instructions Elsie. And finally, the person that we are here for tonight. A very special person, ran a incredible primary, wouldn't you say? Incredible? Anytime you win, it's incredible. But he did, against some very tough and good competition. And, hey, he's going to be your next senator from the incredible state of Montana. Matt Rosendale. Come up, Matt. Come up, Matt. State Hello, Montana. Do we have an incredible president or what? We actually have a president who fights every single day for the people across this great nation. And here at home, he's fighting for our military men and women serving right here in Malmstrom Air Force Base and across the country. And for all our veterans and for our seniors, he's fighting for our folks working in the timber industry, and our energy production. He's fighting for our hardworking farmers and ranchers across the entire state. And you know he's fighting for our miners down in Butte and those coal workers in Colstrip who produce that beautiful clean coal. He's also fighting for everyone across our state who feels their voice isn't being heard, including the unborn. And I will be that voice for you if you elect me to the United States Senate. And I will fight for you every day because I mean business about standing with President Trump to Make America Great Again. Because what's good for America is great for Montana. Today, I ask for your vote so that I can help President Trump continue his good work. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you, Montana. May God bless each and every one of you and the great United States of America. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! Thank you very much. That was great. This is a really good man. This is a man that loves the people of Montana, loves the people of this country. It's time to retire liberal Democrat Jon Tester. And you're going to get on your side a real Montana fighter. You see it. You've been watching for the last six months. He is a tough cookie. He's a fighter. He's going to fight for you, Matt Rosendale. So Jon Tester says one thing when he's in Montana. But I will tell you, I'm testament to it, he does the exact opposite when he goes to Washington. A vote for Jon Tester is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi … And the new leader of the Democrat Party Maxine Waters. Where have they gone? Jon Tester voted no on repealing Obamacare. And even though we got a little surprise vote that evening, you all remember that evening somebody came in with a thumbs down after campaigning for years that he was going to repeal and replace. But that's okay because we, for the most part, have already done it. And we have great health care coming out and it just came out two weeks ago. And we got rid of the individual mandate and lots of other things. Sometimes we have to do it the hard way, but that's okay, too. Jon Tester voted no on tax cuts for Montana families. He voted no on cutting the estate tax or the death tax for your farms, your farmers, and your small businesses. Think of that one. Think of that one. But you got it anyway because we got it passed. So, on your farms, for the most part, you will have no estate tax or death tax to pay. You can leave your farm, you can leave your small business to your children or whoever you want to leave them, don't always leave them to the children. If the children aren't good children don't, leave them to somebody else. But you have no tax to pay, pretty good, right? Nobody thought that was going to happen. Tester voted against it. Jon Tester voted no on legislation to stop late term abortions. You wouldn't think it'd play very well out here. How did he get elected? I mean, I know -- I know a lot of people from Montana. You've got to explain that one to me. How did he get elected? All right. You can right your wrong in November, okay? You can right your wrong. Matt Rosendale. Jon Tester voted no on Kate's Law. You know what Kate's Law is. That's legislation named for Kate Steinle who was gunned down by a five-time deported illegal immigrant. You deserve a senator who doesn't just talk like he's from Montana. You deserve a senator who actually votes like he's from Montana. Tester even voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees from terror-stricken countries. You believe this one? What's going on with that? The Democrats want open borders, which means lots of crime. We want tough, strong, powerful borders, and we want no crime and we're going to protect ICE. We protect ICE. They protect us and we protect them. They protect us and we protect them. You saw that clown yesterday on the Statue of Liberty? You see the guys that went up there? I wouldn't have done it. I would have said let's get some nets and let's wait until she comes down. Just get some nets. Really? Yes. You see those guys -- the bravery of doing that? What a group. We protect ICE, and our border patrol, and our law enforcement … And our fire department. And our fire department. But we protect our people. Jon Tester opposed our travel ban to keep America safe, which, by the way, I'm proud to report that last week the Supreme Court of the United States just upheld the Trump travel ban. And they gave us the authority to protect our nation, keep our nation safe -- to keep it safe. As you know, there's now a vacancy on the Supreme Court. And if you turn in Monday at nine o'clock, I think you're going to be extremely with the selection, right? And they're all great. They're all great. And I want to thank Justice Kennedy for his lifetime of truly distinguished service. And he had confidence in me. He left because he said you're going to pick somebody great, and, so nice. So nice. Great man, great --a great gentleman. Jon Tester voted against Neil Gorsuch, the incredible justice who supports fully our Constitution. That's a hard one to vote against, isn't it? Tester opposed many of our amazing judges. And yet, I see Jon Tester saying such nice things about me. I say, yah, but he never votes for me. He never votes. And it's all -- I'd rather have him say bad about me but vote, right? Yeah, Jon Tester voted for liberal Obama judges who tried to take away your Second Amendment, tried to take it away … Because Tester doesn't share your values. Jon Tester showed his true colors with his shameful, dishonest attacks on a great man, a friend of mine. A man that I said, why don't you run the V.A.? You'd be great. Navy Admiral Ronny Jackson. And a report just came out, and I should have brought it because I would have read it, but it's long but beautiful for Ronny Jackson. Secret Service are all over the place. And they wrote a report that what he said was so false and so untrue. Never happened. And they could have ruined -- they could have ruined -- could have ruined a lesser man. But Dr. Jackson -- I don't know do I -- should I call him "admiral" or "doctor" -- I'll call him both. Doctor slash Admiral. He's a doctor, he's an Admiral, his son is a top -- really a top, like a top, top student at Annapolis graduating this year. An incredible wife, incredible family. You know, I feel guilty. I feel guilty. Admiral Jackson was getting ready to leave service, and he served many years admirably. Not a blemish. Perfect. Beautiful person. A lot of you know exactly. He actually said I was healthy. You know, he's the one. When the fake news said, "Oh, why isn't Trump giving the physical? Why?" Dr. Jackson and his staff, they went out, they gave me a physical. That was a physical. And when they said I'm very healthy, the news was devastated. They were devastated. They didn't want to hear that. They didn't want to hear that. But he's a great family man and -- and I said to him, "I feel guilty." I said, "Hey, doc, why don't you run the V.A.? You're a leader, you're an Admiral, people admire you." He's an admired guy or I wouldn't have done it. "Well, sir, I wasn't really thinking of that." I say, "Doc, you'll be great. Go ahead and do it." "Sir, whatever your order, I will do." You know he's like, even if he didn't want to do it, he said that to me. In fact, your great First Lady said to me that same day, "Well, did he want to do it?" I said, "I really don't know, he said he'd do it." But then, when I thought about it, I don't know. But he said, "If you ask, I will do it." But he didn't really want to do it. So, I sort of feel guilty about this whole thing because what happened is he said, "Sir, if you would like me to do it I'll do it." Wasn't what he had in mind. I put him into the world of politics. How vicious is the world? But Jon Tester said things about him that were horrible and that weren't true. And that's probably why I'm here because I won Montana by so many points I don't have to come here. I don't have to come here. You know, a lot of people from states where we have these crazy big leads, we had 42 and 44 -- we won by 44 points over a Democrat. Over a Democrat. We won -- won by 44 points over a Democrat. Now, it was Crooked Hillary, but still she's a Democrat. And -- yeah. No, she gets special treatment. Sorry. Sorry. She gets special treatment under the Justice Department. Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. She gets special treatment under the Justice Department. Anybody else in America -- how about that FBI agent? How about that guy? You think he liked me? You think he liked me? You think there was just a little bias there -- a little bias? Oh, did we catch them in the act. It's a rigged deal folks. It's a rigged deal. I used to say it. It's a rigged deal. It's a disgrace. And we go away on Monday. We appoint and go away, and I'll see lots of people. I'll see NATO and I'm going to tell NATO, "You got to start paying your bills. The United States is not going to take care of everything." We're paying for anywhere from 70 to 90 percent to protect Europe, and that's fine. Of course they kill us on trade. They kill us on other things. They make it impossible to do business in Europe, yet they come in and they sell their Mercedes and their BMWs to us. So we have $151 billion in trade deficits with the E.U. And, on top of that, they kill us with NATO. They kill us. So we pay four percent of a huge GDP, which got a lot bigger since I became your president. And Germany -- Germany which is the biggest country of the E.U., European Union, Germany pays one percent. One percent. And I said, "You know, Angela, I can't guarantee it, but we're protecting you, and it means a lot more to you than protecting us because I don't know how much protection we get by protecting you." And then they go out and make a gas deal, oil and gas, from Russia, where they pay billions and billions of dollars to Russia. Okay? So they want to protect against Russia, and yet they pay billions of dollars to Russia, and we are the schmucks that are paying for the whole thing. So then -- and by the way, I have to say this. Since I came, which is a year and a half, almost $33 billion more is projected to be paid by those NATO nations, but it's not enough. Do they ever tell you that? No, no. But I will tell you, the Secretary General Stoltenberg is Trump's biggest fan. He said, "Those NATO nations are going like this, less money, less money. Why not? And when you started talking, it went like a rocket ship. Went just like a rocket ship." So, so anytime I suggest anything -- so we've gotten $33 billion – oh, it's going to be a lot more money than that. But then they say, "Oh, let's see, he's angry at NATO. I guess, yeah, he loves Russia. I love Russia." I will say this, I am meeting with President Putin next week and getting along -- let me tell you, getting along with Russia and getting along with China and getting along with other countries is a good thing. It's not a bad thing. It's a good thing. I would say for stupid people or for political people, because they're not stupid, all they are good at obstruction, good at resisting. You know, their whole thing there thing is "resist," right? But, every time it comes up -- I will say this, I'm going to have to ask them this question: how bad has it been since Trump has been in? Take a look at what's happened. Take a look at -- we've just increased our military spending. We are at $700 billion. We've become a nation that is exporting energy for the first time. We're exporting energy. So many things. And you look at the money that NATO is getting now. They're probably saying in Russia, "You know, if we did like this guy, we've made a big mistake. We'd rather have crooked Hillary Clinton." I think they would much rather have Hillary. But, but getting along with other countries -- and you're talking nuclear powers, in all fairness. Getting along is really a nice thing. It's a smart thing. We're going to beat everybody, we have the greatest military. We have now -- look, we have now -- and hopefully, we'll never have to use it. You know, the only way you're never going to have to use it? If it's so powerful, so good, so strong that nobody wants to play games, and that's what we are doing. That's what we're doing. We'll never have to use it. And then, of course, we have North Korea, where you noticed eight months – so, during the Obama administration, it seemed like a missile a week. I mean, a lot of missiles going up, a lot of rockets going up, a lot of nuclear testing. They thought there was an earthquake the size of something they had never tested before. They said, "Where is it?" "Oh, it's in Korea someplace." They said, "Why don't you check nuclear weapons?" It was a nuclear weapon, alright? So, since the rhetoric stopped -- you know, we had very tough rhetoric. Wouldn't you say it was a little tough, right? So, remember, they said, "He's too tough. He's going to cause a war. It's too tough." Now they say, "He's too nice. He's too nice. He's too nice." I got along very well with Chairman Kim. I got along very well -- that's a good that I got along well. Now what hasn't happened in eight months? In eight months -- first of all, we got our prisoners back before I even went, right? And I didn't pay $1.8 billion by the way, in cash. We didn't pay $1.8 billion, right? We paid slightly less than $1.8. billion. We paid nothing. And yet -- and yet it was a very smart deal for North Korea. Good will is very important. But we signed a wonderful paper saying they're going to denuclearize their whole thing. It's going to all happen. But now, you know, you're back -- I was back I think six days, "Why hasn't is started? Why?" I mean, these guys, like -- Obama was very close to going to war. You have 30 million people in Seoul. It's 30 miles off the border. And that's a tough border. Thousands of -- of cannons, they call them. These are big, big guns. I'm not even talking about nuclear. You could have lost 30, 40, 50 million people. You could have had a war like you haven't had in a long time. And guess what you have now? Eight months, no nuclear testing, no missiles, no anything. Mike Pompeo is over there right now. And they -- they -- they say, "He" -- meaning me, these guys, the crooked press, they are so dishonest. They are so dishonest. Fake news. They're the fake news media. So what do they say all the time? Because I didn't give anything up. What do they say all the time? They say, "He went there." I went there. I went to Singapore. We had a meeting. "By agreeing to meet" -- you know, they can't come up with anything else, like -- I didn't give, like Clinton and like Obama would have -- you know, Obama couldn't meet. Now they say, "Well Obama" -- Obama couldn't meet. They wouldn't see him. So I didn't have -- like Clinton, where they gave him billions and billions of dollars and got nothing. Okay? So, they couldn't find anything, so what did they do? They say, "He met." I met. That's what we lost, folks. "He met." Now by the way, Obama would have loved to have met. They wouldn't see him. They wouldn't see him. One of the first question I asked when I was over there, they wouldn't see him. So I met. That's how we got beaten. That -- now they're saying it with Putin. "Well, Putin is highly prepared, and Trump, will he be prepared for the meeting?" Trust me, we'll do just fine. We'll do just fine. Fake news. Bad people. "Will he be prepared? Will he be prepared?" And I might even end up having a good relationship, but they're going, "Will President Trump be prepared? You know, President Putin is KGB and this and that." You know what? Putin's fine. He's fine. We're all fine. We're people. Will I be prepared? Totally prepared. I've been preparing for this stuff my whole life. They don't say that. They don't say that. And you really do, you really -- and I tell you what. Because I see it. I see the way they write. They're so damn dishonest. And I don't mean all of them, because some of the finest people I know are journalists. Really. Hard to believe when I say that. I hate to say it, but I have to say. But 75 percent of those people are downright dishonest. Downright dishonest. They're fake. They're fake. They quote sources. "A source within the Trump organization said" -- a source. They don't have a source. They never use names anymore. You know, in the old days, you have to use names. "Jim Smith said that Donald Trump is a bad guy." They don't do that anymore. They say, "A source within the administration." They make the sources up. They don't exist in many cases. Any time you say -- you know, I saw one of them said, "Fifteen anonymous sources" -- I don't have fifteen people in the White -- I mean, forget it. "Fifteen anonymous sources have said all sorts of stuff." These are really bad people. But, here's the bottom line: we're here. How the hell did we get here? Really? How did here? How did we get here? So, if you look at Jon Tester, he signed up for the Democrats' radical immigration agenda, which is "let them come in, and we believe," they say, "in sanctuary cities where they house the criminals and others." We believe in strong borders and no crime, it's very simple. Strong borders. We believe in coming into this country legally. We believe in coming in legally. We believe in the merit system. So when you have a business and somebody comes in and honestly -- hate to tell you this, got to go with it -- we are doing so well. So many businesses are moving back to this country. So many car companies are coming back into Michigan and to Ohio and to Pennsylvania and to North and South Carolina. We need people. We don't have the workers anymore. And by the way, that's something that's unique. You haven't heard that for a long time. Wages are going up. Right? But we need people. But who do we need? We need people that come in under the merit system. Under the merit system. A vote for the Democrats in November is a vote to let MS-13 run wild in our communities … To let drugs pour into our cities, and to take jobs and benefits away from our hardworking Americans, and we're not letting it happen. Democrats want anarchy, they really do, and they don't know who they're playing with, folks. I said it the other day, yes, she is a low IQ individual, Maxine Waters. I said it the other day. High -- I mean, honestly, she's somewhere in the mid-60s, I believe that. He will be impeached. I will impeach him. Even the Democrats are saying, "How are you saying that?" They don't want to use that word, because it gets the Republicans out to vote. They say, "Stay away from that word. Especially since he's done nothing wrong." That helps also, right? There's no collusion. No collusion. After spending $22 million, it's awfully tough. And the House just left and they said, "There's no collusion." Can you imagine this? It's all a ruse. This was an excuse for the Democrats who lost an election, who actually got their ass kicked, 306 … 306 to 223, that's a pretty good . 306 -- hey, we won states. Take Wisconsin, I just left Wisconsin. So we won -- in fact, we're building -- they're building -- friends of mine, Foxconn, they make the Apple laptops and iPhones are incredible. They're -- we're going to spend -- they are going to spend, like, $11 billion, and this is going to be about a $15 billion plant. There will be nothing like it in this country, and frankly, outside of China, there will be nothing like it, but by the time it's finished, it'll top anything in China also. It's incredible. It's incredible. But, but $15 billion, 15,000 jobs Wisconsin. But think of Wisconsin. Reagan had his big win. He won every state except for one, the great state of Wisconsin. I won Wisconsin. First time -- first time since Dwight Eisenhower in 1952. And we won Michigan. And we won Pennsylvania, North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida, we ran up that East Coast. You had a run up that East Coast. Winning the Electoral College is very tough for a Republican, much tougher than the so-called "popular vote," where people vote four times, you know. Much tougher. Much, much tougher. We had a great -- we had a great victory. But think of it. Not since Dwight Eisenhower, 1952. What an -- was that one of the great evenings? Was that one of the … And I always say, because the ratings that they're getting are beyond belief. You know, the New York Times was ready to fold. It was going to close. And then I came along, unfortunately, and they -- they sell. But don't worry. Because ultimately, when I leave in seven years from now … Of course -- they'll fold. They will fold. No, no, when you see the Times, how dishonest they are, when you see the Washington Post, how totally dishonest -- when we leave -- and I actually say this: they are all doing numbers that they've, like, never done. When I announce, they are going to endorse me. Because if I lose -- should I lose, or if I don't run, they're out of business. Who's going to cover? They're going to cover Bernie? Hey, they're going to cover like Sleepy Joe Biden? They're going to cover Pocahontas, who was … think of it. Think of it, she of the great tribal heritage. What tribe is it? "Uh, let me think about that one." Meantime, she's based her life on being a minority. Pocahontas -- they always want me to apologize for saying it, and I hereby -- oh no, I want to apologize. I'll use tonight. Pocahontas, I apologize to you. I apologize -- to you I apologize. To the fake Pocahontas, I won't apologize. No, it's causing her problems. You know that name's causing her -- because now even the liberals are saying, "Take a test. Take a test." You know, the -- I tell you, I shouldn't tell you because I like not to give away secrets but this one. Let's say I'm debating Pocahontas, right? I promise you I'll do this. I will take -- you know those little kits they sell on television for $2? Learn your heritage. The guy says, "I was born in Scotland," turns out he was born in Puerto Rico. And that's okay. It's good, you know. Guy says, "I was born in Germany," well, he wasn't born in Germany. He was born someplace else. I'm going to get one of those little kits and in the middle of the debate when she proclaims that she's of Indian heritage because her mother said she has high cheekbones. That's her only evidence, that her mother said she had high cheekbones. We will take that little kit and say, but we have to do it gently. Because we're in the #MeToo generation, so I have to be very gentle. And we will very gently take that kit and we will slowly toss it, hoping it doesn't hit her and injure her arm even though it only weighs, probably, two ounces. And we will say, "I will give you a million dollars to your favorite charity, paid for by Trump, if you take the test and it shows you're an Indian." You know. And let's see what she does. I have a feeling she will say no, but we will that for the debates. Do me a favor, keep it within this room. Because I don't want to give away any secrets. And the press is very honorable, they won't. Please don't tell her what I just said. Democrats are launching outrageous attacks against our incredible law enforcement and our ICE and border patrol. The new platform of the Democrat party, and by the way, I call it the Democrat party. It sounds better rhetorically, you know. I wrote bestsellers, I guess I speak well. You know, we turned away thousands of people. They never say I'm a great speaker. Why the hell do so many people come? Why -- I don't think … It's true, why do they come? Why? Why, oh why, do they come? Got to be something. I guess they like my policy -- maybe they like policy. No, it's true. Have you ever noticed? You never hear that. You never hear that. You never hear it. I mean, there's got to be a reason. I have broken more Elton John records, he seems to have a lot of records, and we beat -- and I, by the way, I don't have a musical instrument. I don't have a guitar or an organ. No organ. Elton has an organ and lots of other people helping. You know we've broken a lot of records. We've broken virtually every record because you know, look, I only need this space. They need much more room for basketball, for hockey, for all the sports. They need a lot of room. We don't need it. We have people in that space, so we break all these records. But really we do it without, like, the musical instruments. This is the only musical, the mouth, and hopefully the brain attached to the mouth, right? The brain, more important than the mouth is the brain. The brain is much more important. But they -- do you ever notice -- do you ever hear something, they say -- you know we had a case last week, we were in a great place, in Wisconsin. And we had a tremendous crowd and we have like the choice of a 22,000 seat arena and in retrospect, we would have packed it and they would have sent away thousands of people. But the people said to me, very innocent people, they were great. But I hadn't met them. I said, "Why didn't you" – they, they filled up a 7,000 seat arena, walked away thousands of people, like over 20, and we would have filled -- and I said, "Why didn't you use the bigger arena?" He said, "Sir, we knew that if you had five vacant seats, empty seats" -- see vacant just because I was in the , I use that term. "If you had five empty seats, they would say, 'Donald Trump was unable to fill the arena.'" And I said, "You know what, you're right." How about the one from the Washington Post? They got there four hours early and the arena hadn't started even letting people in. So there was just a few people, you all saw that story, I hope. You all saw that story, right? They got there four hours, five hours -- this writer, sleazebag, he didn't get fired. He said, "Donald Trump had an empty arena." Except, when I showed up, the place was packed and they had to walk away thousands of people. Right? And I didn't see this story, but you know who saw the story? The people that were in the arena and they went nuts. And they apologized but you know where they apologized? On Twitter. They didn't write -- they apologized. But they had the story, "Donald Trump, not very good crowd tonight." And they show a totally empty arena that four hours later -- and by the way, hate to say it, take a look at the pictures for the inauguration. We had some monster crowd. Big, monster Big monster. But take a look at that. So they show an arena before the people started coming in. There were a few people, four or five hours ahead, and they apologized -- it's a disgrace. But let me just tell you, the Democrats -- we call them the Democrat party. You know why? The Democratic party sounds too good. Sounds better, doesn't it? I always hate saying, "The Democrat party." A lot of people say, "You meant to say …" Well actually, their name is the Democrat party. The Democratic party sounds too good so I don't want to use it. Okay? The new platform of the Democrat party is to abolish ICE. In other words, they want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely. That's what they want to do. They want -- they want everybody coming in. And you know the beauty with ICE -- they're so tough. When you have these MS-13 thugs come in, ICE goes in and wipes them out like nothing because they're much tougher. They wipe them out. And they liberate towns on Long Island and other places. You know its like, like you're occupied. It's like a nation is occupying your country. So we're taking them out by the thousands. And if it weren't for ICE, we wouldn't be doing it. These are savage gangs, MS-13 and others. We will not stand for these vile Democrat smears against our law enforcement and that includes our great police, that includes our great border patrol, that includes our military where they're always fighting against funding for the military. We will always stand by, proudly, the heroes -- and they're our heroes on ICE and border patrol and law enforcement and on military. Every day I'm president, we will track down the gang members, drug deals, child predators and criminal aliens that we find. We will get them. We will throw the hell out of our country or put them in jail. So this year, in November, if you want to save ICE and frankly, if you want to save your law enforcement, if you want to save your military, getting military funding -- we've got $700 billion, the biggest ever, then next year $716. We saved our military. Getting military funding from these Democrats is almost impossible. They don't want it, they don't care about military, they don't care about our law enforcement. They couldn't give a damn. You better vote Republican. We need more Republicans. If you want to protect your family and your community, then you have no choice. You have to vote for Matt, you have to vote for Republicans. If you want to have a country, if you want borders -- how about borders? Would it be nice to have borders? Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! And, yes, we are already building the wall. It started in California, in San Diego. $1.6 billion, we're asking for $5 billion. And I'll tell you what, it's -- it's brutal with these people. They don't want it. They -- they know it's the right thing to do, but they think it will help me. It's not even the Republicans -- they think it'll help Trump. If we do it, it's good for Trump. Let's not do it. They're great Americans. Every day, we are keeping our promises. We've created 3.4 million jobs since Election Day, which nobody can even believe. Nobody can believe. Nobody believes it. I always say if I would have said that on the campaign trail when I was here or anyplace else, it would have been brutal. They would have said, "How can you possibly say a thing like that?" 3.4 million new jobs, unemployment claims are at a 45-year low. African-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. Remember, "What do you have to lose?" Remember, "What do you have to lose?" People didn't like it when I said that. What do you have to lose? Guess, what, we're right. In fact, a new poll came out last week, we were up – in, like, a week -- ten points with the Hispanic community. Ten points. Because they want to be safe. Unemployment among women is at the lowest level it's been in 65 years, and within a couple of weeks, history. Our economic policy can be summed up in three very simple but beautiful but beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs. Since the election, we have lifted 3 million people off of food stamps. And, by the way, on a humanitarian basis, that's a great thing. Do you how much money we save by doing that as a country? Three million people and it's going up fast. Wages, for the first time in 18 years are rising again. People can go out, they can actually choose a job and they have wages that are rising. And six months ago, Republicans passed the biggest tax cuts in American history, the biggest in American history. Everyone in this room is benefiting. Everybody is benefiting. We slashed taxes for working families and saved our family farms. We saved family farms. As a result of our tax cuts, $300 billion poured back into the United States just in the first quarter of this year alone. And we're going to have a lot more than that. $300 billion came back, money that would have never been able to come back into our country. It's coming back, it's pouring back. I think the number's going to be $5 trillion, but $350 billion has already come back. Apple computer is spending $350 billion on new campuses, on new facilities. They're bringing back $350 billion. They're putting up their own money. They're going to actually have -- probably, subject to the tax code, about $230 billion come back. 95 percent of U.S. manufacturers are optimistic about the future. That's the highest number ever. Think of it, 95 percent of anything, you don't hear that. We also repealed, despite the thumb down at two o'clock in the morning, we also repealed the most horrible aspect of the failed Obamacare health care, it's called the individual mandate. So, it's gone. It's gone. Gone. It's gone. And, you know, that was where you had to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to pay for bad health care. Okay? One of the truly rip-offs, that was a big rip-off, but we got rid of it. So all you people, how many people were you paying for not to have it? Lot of people, right? Yeah, lot of people. Lot people, they paid not to have health care. That doesn't work. We are allowing businesses to join forces to buy better health care for less money through association health plans. They just came out two weeks ago and they cross state lines. We're allowed to cross state lines. You're going to get very low prices for very good healthcare. Millions of people are already signing up. And after decades of waiting, we opened ANWR in Alaska for energy development. They've been trying to get that approved for 40 years. We've eliminated record numbers of job killing regulations. We've stopped cold the assault on our farmers, our ranchers, our hunters, energy producers, and our great and loving miners. We love our miners. And we put our miners back to work, clean coal. We are proudly and strongly protecting our public lands for future generations. You see that. You see it all over. You see what we're doing. You see legislation. You see what's happening. We approved the Keystone and the Dakota Access pipelines right away, 48,000 jobs 48,000 jobs. We withdrew from the job killing Paris Climate accord. One of the most unfair deals. I said, "Boy, I'm going to get killed when I approve this one. When I sign off this." You know it sounds so pretty, right? The Paris Climate, who wouldn't do that? Except it's horrible for us -- great for other countries, but horrible for us. We took historic action to safeguard your constitutional freedoms, protecting religious liberty, defending the Second Amendment, and confirming a record number of circuit court judges. And we are bringing back our wealth from foreign countries -- you know this, right? We are bringing back our wealth from foreign countries that have been ripping us off for years. For too long we watched and we waited and we saw as other countries stole our jobs, cheated our workers, and gutted our industry. You look at all the places -- here? Yeah, even here. But you look at some places, you look at some -- you go up to New England and you still see the, the remnants where they moved down to Mexico under NAFTA, one of the worst deals that we're negotiating. And I have a feeling, they'll come along. We'll see. And if they don't, we'll actually do better. We'll actually do better. The United States of America was the piggybank that everybody was robbing. And let me tell you, our allies in many cases were worse than our enemies. We opened our country to their goods, but they put up massive barriers to keep our products and our goods the hell out of their country because they didn't want that competition. And that's not free trade, that's stupid trade. We're not going to do that. We don't do that anymore. We have to have fair and reciprocal -- that being the more important word. We need reciprocal. They charge a 50 percent tax. We charge a 50 percent tax. Then we say, look, let's bring it to nothing, or I don't care one way or the other. Do whatever you want. And then, I'll have people complaining. They'll say -- it's incredible. So we have countries ripping us off for years. And then, when I say, "Well, look, we're going to put tariffs on there because they have been ripping us." We have trade deficits. They have surpluses. That would be unbelievable. So, they have all of this, and I say, "We are going to do something about it." And I'll get calls from some politicians. "Oh, that's terrible." I say, "No, you don't understand. We're going to make great deals." "No, no let's just leave it the way it is. Please, just leave it the way it is. Leave it the way it is." I say, "No, no. We have all the cards. We're the bank that everybody's stealing from." You saw with China, $50 billion and another $200 billion frankly is waiting. Nobody's ever seen this before, because China, and I have great respect for President Xi and for China. You have to respect them. You have to admire them. Now, they'll say, "Donald Trump loves China -- loves China more than he loves the United States." These people. But, so you have to be careful what you say. Because if I say that I do, I respect China, and I respect President Xi, but they've been killing us -- $507 billion dollars in trade deficits last year -- 507. Who the hell can lose 500 -- then you want to do something about it and you get attacked. "Oh, that's not nice. That's not free trade." The war was lost on trade many years ago. You know, when they were saying, "Not a free trader," I said, "No, no. The war was lost but now we're going to win it and because we have all the cards." But, it's always helpful when you don't have the little ones sniping at your heels, because it's easier to negotiate when you have support. You don't have some senator that was forced out of office because he didn't like me saying bad things like, "Oh, we shouldn't be doing that against China. We shouldn't be doing that against so and so." We are in such a great position. Other countries are calling us. Do you know that if we knocked down the trade deficit, right, the trade deficit by just a little bit, 25 percent, and we can do that easily. That's easy. If we do that, we pick up one point in GDP. Does anybody know that? That's three trillion dollars and that's 10 million jobs. That's just 25 percent. We pick up one point. And speaking of GDP, remember when I'd say it's going to go to three percent pretty quickly and all of this? Well now, The Atlanta Fed just predicted 4.8 percent. Now, who knows. Who knows. Who knows. Who knows. I can only tell you that it's going to be a lot better than what you had with Obama. And if these people got elected, you would have gone down like you'd never seen anything go down. They wouldn't have taken the regulations off. They wouldn't have given you the tax cuts, the Democrats. You would have had an economy that was going to crash and burn. It was ready. And now we've got something that's a rocket ship. And every time I meet a leader of another country, which is often, they always start by saying, "Sir, I'd like to congratulate you on the incredible job you've done with the United States economy." It's true. Japan. South Korea. Every time they say, "I'd like to congratulate you." And others are -- they are actually studying what we've done. They're studying what we've done. But we have the greatest people in the world and we're doing good. You know, that -- those hats, those beautiful, beautiful hats, "Make America Great Again." Soon to be changed to, "Keep America Great Bing Bong," right? "Keep America Great." Soon to be changed. I can't use "Make America Great Again" for the second run, right? Doesn't sort of. They said, "Why the hell did you do it the first time?" Right? It's called "Keep America Great," because what we're doing is incredible. It's incredible. We've created -- think of this, since the election, we've created in wealth, 7 trillion dollars. 7 trillion. 7 trillion. We're the fastest growing nation on an economy basis -- maybe it's for the big nations, but I heard "nation" -- we're the fastest growing, economically, nation in the world. Think of that. I add the "big" nation because they're probably back -- I don't know, maybe it said "big" -- whatever it is, we're doing really well. But we're one of the fastest, and I think we're actually the fastest growing. And we are certainly growing our military and growing our power and our strength, and we're taking care of our vets more than anybody's ever taken care of our vets. Thanks to Republican leadership, America is winning again. We're winning. Remember I tell you the story, and America's being respected again all over the world. Been a long time. We're respected. Somebody said, "Could you tell the winning story?" backstage. I said, "They've heard it." But, Steve Daines -- great senator -- comes up to me, and I say, "Hi, Steve." "Sir, the people of Montana, they're really tired, sir, of all this winning. Too much. They can't take it anymore. They can't take it. We've got to slow it down, sir. They can't take it." I say, "Steve, go back to the people." He's going, "more." "Go back to the people and say, 'I'm sorry, I cannot honor that request. We are going to win and win, and we're going to win more. We are going to win like we've never won before.'" Like we've never one before. Because we are finally putting America first. We're putting America first. And by the way, you know all the rhetoric you see, the Thousand Points of Light. What the hell was that, by the way? Thousands Points of Light. What did that mean? Does anyone know? I know one thing: Make America Great Again, we understand. Putting America first, we understand. Thousand Points of Light, I never quite got that one. What the hell is that? Has anyone ever figured that one out? And it was put out by a Republican. But we are, indeed, doing things for this country like nobody believed possible. We're rebuilding our economy, and at the same time, we are restoring our security. We have people flooding our borders like they haven't flooded ever before. They're doing an incredible job, but we've never had a rush like this. That's because people want a piece of our action. They want to come into our economy. They want to come in. Problem is, you have to come in legally. You have to come in through the legal . Sorry. All of that money that we've secured for our military, all of that I've directed the Pentagon to begin a process of creating a sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces called the Space Force. You have the Air Force, you will have the Space Force. You know, people are so excited by that. You know, it's not just sending rockets to the moon and rockets to Mars. This is also a military imperative. In fact, in Russia, they said, "We consider that very threatening," and others did, too. But I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And you know, if it's a part of the Air Force, the Air Force is going to focus on the Air Force. We need a separate branch, and we're working on that. It's called the Space Force, which is very exciting. And people love it. People love it. They get it, and they love it. We passed a landmark V.A. accountability law that everybody said could not be passed. I won't blame the unions, and I won't blame civil service. But let's assume they had a little blame. Everyone said, it couldn't be passed, has not been able to be passed for 45 years, and we just got it passed, V.A. accountability. So now you can fire people when they don't do a job. We can fire when they don't do it. You're fired. You get them the hell out. They're not taking care of our vets, we fire them. They are out of there, boom. They're out of there. And the other thing that we just passed a few weeks ago, and you've heard me talk about this, I always said, you know, our greatest people, they're the greatest people, the vets. They've protected us. Some of them have suffered greatly. And, we weren't taking proper care of them. They were waiting in line for 12 days. How about -- anybody in this audience, go to their doctor, say, "I'm sorry, can't see you for 12 days." Even if you have, like, a bad cold, you have something. People were going in with nothing much, and they were coming out six months later. They can't see a doctor. They were coming out with a terminal illness that could've been corrected easily. And I said, "Why aren't we just sending people who can wait for these long periods -- just send them across the street to a local doctor, get taken care of, and we pay the bill." And everybody said, "We've been trying to get that passed for 40 years." I got it passed three weeks ago. I am good at getting things passed. Remember, we had repeal and replace passed except for one person, and all of the Democrats I have to say. One person plus all of the Democrats. We got no Democrats -- including Tester. He wasn't there for us. "President Trump is a great man. He's a great man." I, really, got to vote for us. Got to vote for us. We also believe that American foreign aid dollars should promote America's interest and values. We don't need to send your hard-earned money to countries that vote against the United States consistently in the United Nations and other places. We don't need to do it. Remember with Israel? Remember when had two votes on something having to do with Israel. I said, "We're watching. With all the aid we give all these countries, we're watching." We ended up getting 68 votes. We didn't do anything. Because they're ripping us, they're taking our money, they don't even vote for us because they didn't respect our country, but now they respect them a lot more. And in many cases, they're not getting that money anymore, too. We stopped it. Instead of apologizing for America, we are standing up for America, and we are standing up for our great American flag. Hey, how about the NFL? Look, I don't want to cause controversy. You're right, U.S.A. is right. I don't want to cause controversy, but how about they passed this stupid thing. You don't have to do this anymore. If you don't respect the flag or if you don't like the country or whatever it is, just go into the locker room. Just go into the locker room. I think in many respects, that's worse. Isn't that worse than not standing? You know? I think that's worse. So they say, "Go into the locker room." So, okay, the anthem's getting ready to play, they run into the locker room, then they come back out. You know what? That doesn't play. That doesn't play. It doesn't play. I actually think, in many ways, it's worse. I heard this thing, I think; they were so happy the owners. This commissioner, where this guy comes from I have no -- they're paying him $40 million a year and their ratings are down 20 percent. But you know why their ratings are down? Yes, the flag. But they're also down because people find politics. In other words, hitting Trump, incorrectly, but hitting Trump. They find that to be much tougher, meaner and more interesting than watching a football game. They actually do. And they're watching the cable networks instead of watching football. They're down 20 percent since this whole thing started with the flag and the Anthem. Washington tried to change us, but instead we are actually changing Washington. We've had a big impact. And now we need Matt Rosendale in the Senate to continue our fight to drain the swamp. We're going to get it done. We need to work every day from now until the election, for your family, for your community, your country, for your constitution. And this November I need you to get your friends, get your colleagues, get your neighbors and get your ass out to vote. Is that okay? Get your ass out to vote. Vote for Matt. They're going to say, "Oh, that was not presidential." Watch. "That was not presidential." Did I ever tell you how easy for me it would be for me to be presidential, you know. Like we're all -- me, you, we're really smart people. I have, by the way, the most loyal people in the world, they're the smartest, they're the toughest people. They're the greatest people in the world. But they'll something, like, that's not presidential. And what I say, acting presidential is so easy for me, would be -- it's much easier than what I do. Much easier. And sometimes I have to do it. You walk up to the microphone, right. Good evening ladies and gentleman of the great state of Montana. You have to put a little emphasis right? This is wonderful to be with you tonight. Thank you for being here. Goodbye. No, the people of Montana, they know. They know. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. Returning the power where it belongs, to the people. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! Our proud American ancestors crossed oceans, scaled mountains, defeated empires and built the modern world with their own two hands. They were brilliant. This state, the state of Montana, was forged by incredible pioneer men and women who braved the call and tamed the wilderness to build a beautiful life, right out here in the open. And I did look at those skies, you know, I heard so much about ... Your skies. I heard so much about your skies. I flown in, I looked at those skies. Not seeing pollution is a wonderful thing, right? Those are beautiful skies. These Montana pioneers were tough, and they were strong, and they were brilliant. They didn't have a lot of money, they didn't have a lot of luxury, but they had faith, they heart, they had grit and they had each other. They had each other. And, above all else, they loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who knew how to fight, and they knew how to win. You talk about winning, they knew how to win. And with your help, your voice, and your vote we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning. And the truth is, you will never ever get tired of winning, never. We won't back down. We won't give in and we will never, ever surrender. We will never, ever quit. We go forward to victory. Because we are Americans, and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people, we are one family, and we are one glorious nation under God. And together, we will make America wealthy again. Soon, we will make America strong again. We will make America safe again And we will Make America Great Again. Thank you, Montana. Thank you.